Extracted Posts:

Post 1:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:14:59
Post Date: This is what I call a focus week hangover.

🤪🤪🤪

This is what happens when you block out most of your week for focus time.

I’m actually not mad at all. It’s a great way to spend a Friday.

end


Post 2:
Post: 2023-09-26 17:15:01
Post Date: DACA is now illegal.

But what does this really mean?

- No new DACA applications can be approved
- Current DACA recipients can still get DACA
- Pending (new) DACA applications remain pending 
- USCIS can still accept (but not approve) new apps

---

Yesterday a district court judge ruled that Obama's DACA program and the updates made to it by Biden are illegal.

The court concluded that the programs go against Congressional intent, so the Executive branch (the President) can't make these changes without Congress.

The decision will go to the 5th Circuit appeals court. And then potentially the Supreme Court.

This isn't final.

But I predict the outcome may be similar as it goes up the courts.

end


Post 3:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:15:03
Post Date: 🧼 Want a clean criminal record for immigration? 🧼

DO NOT do this... 

Get an expungement.

Why not?

Nearly all expungements have NO impact on your immigration case.

Your crime will still be "on your record" for your immigration case.

If your conviction is expunged because you completed probation, time has passed, and/or you showed that you've rehabilitated, it often means nothing for immigration.

Maybe you want an expungement for other reasons (like job applications/background checks).  So it might be worth doing.  But just be aware that it probably wont help with your immigration case.

So what can you do?

✔️ Check with a immigration attorney to see if your crime will impact your immigration status

✔️ Work with a criminal attorney to see if you can get the charge/conviction/sentence changed so that it will not impact you immigration status

Usually I am pro "do-it yourself" immigration (with the right guidance/tools), but this is one area where you should NOT go it alone.

You could spend a lot of time and money and end up exactly where you started.

#immigration #crimmigration #expungments

end


Post 4:
Post: 2023-11-25 17:15:05
Post Date: If you filed premium processing...

What does this case status mean?

It usually means an RFE.

The case status doesn't say "we've sent you a request for evidence."

Instead, it says that the premium processing clock is stopped.

Neither you nor your attorney will receive an email/electronic copy of the RFE.

Indeed, we just received an RFE faxed to us.

...thank goodness we still have a fax number.

Even though premium processing has some nice email update features, this does not include getting the RFE.

You have to wait for fax or snail mail for your lovely RFE.

end


Post 5:
Post: 2024-04-23 17:15:07
Post Date: She’s beauty & she’s grace…

She’s Miss USCIS please accept this EB1A + AOS before the 4/1 fee hike.



…I would love to know how many pages of paper USCIS received in the month leading up to 4/1.

end


Post 6:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:15:09
Post Date: 5 tips for every immigration interview.

1️⃣ Dress to impress, but be comfortable. 

Think slacks/chinos and a button/sweater down for guys, and a skirt/dress pants and blouse/sweater for gals. Jeans are OK, but avoid jeans with holes.

2️⃣ Arrive early.  

But know that USCIS probably won't let you in the building until 15min before your appointment.

3️⃣ Be ready to WAIT. 

Even once you get into the building, you might have to wait several hours before your interview begins.  Just because you have an appointment time, does not mean the interview will begin at the scheduled time.

4️⃣ Be aware that USCIS does NOT call the interview numbers in order.

If you are number "P79" you might get called after "P96" or vice versa. Try not to stress if you hear a much higher number than yours called before you.  This is normal.

5️⃣ Sit close to the doors where officers are coming out.  

This way you can easily hear them call the numbers.  Some officers whisper the numbers (I don't know why), so you want to be close by to hear your number called.

Finally...

Breath, you got this. 💨👍️

#immigration #USCIS #USCISinterview

end


Post 7:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:15:12
Post Date: What can you do NOW to build your NIW profile?

Here are 6 simple steps.

..taken from our NIW webinar today.

1) Define your field (what are you the expert in?)
2) Join a national professional organization 
3) Volunteer to judge a competition 
4) Help organize a professional conference
5) Create useful content on social media
6) Start tracking your metrics

---

You won't win an NIW case by simply completing these 6 steps.

But...

You will put yourself in a better position than you were yesterday.


#immigration #EB2 #greencard #NIW 

end


Post 8:
Post: 2024-06-22 17:15:14
Post Date: How long will my immigration case take?

You probably want a concrete answer to this.

And that is fair. You need to plan your life.

But...

The range can be wild.

For example, for a simple green card renewal (I-90), the case can take...

Anywhere from 1 to 20 months!

I just had 2 green card renewals approved.

One took 20+ months.

The other was approved in less than a month!

If anything the 1-month approval had more "issues."

This is why it's so hard to give a helpful prediction to clients.

I always wish I could give a more concrete answer.

But it's so hard to predict!

...even if you look at the USCIS case processing times.

---

P.S. Just in case you were still wondering, USCIS does not use the FIFO method.

end


Post 9:
Post: 2024-04-23 17:15:16
Post Date: Best USCIS online feature...

Biometrics appointment rescheduling.

In the past, we used to have to try to call the USCIS customer service line...

Shouting into the phone BIOMETRICS RESCHEDULE, hoping to get a human being on the phone.

Now, I can login to my USCIS account, and request to reschedule the appointment for a client with just the receipt number (I don't even need to have that client linked to my online account, thank goodness, because many of my filings don't get linked by USCIS).

This client had prior travel plans.

And in minutes I was able to reschedule the appointment to a day she would be in town.

USCIS issued a new appointment notice almost instantaneously.

Hurray!

I hope USCIS can model other online services after this one.

end


Post 10:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:15:18
Post Date: A client once emailed me 6 times before 7:30am. 

I was so annoyed. 

But now I get it.

If you are going through the U.S. immigration system, you probably feel out of control.

Your employer has control.
USCIS has control.
The consulate has control.
COVID has control.
The visa bulletin has control.

But you don't have control.

So what's a way to try to take control?

Check-in on your case. Ask what's going on. Email your lawyer.

Sometimes it's the only thing you can do.

It's easy for me to forget this and just get annoyed.  

But I have to check myself.

---

The key takeaway here is NOT to email me 6 times a day. Please don't.

But instead, to say...I get it. 

And I have to admit, I would be a high-maintenance client myself. 

I love to anxiously try to take control of things I have no control over.

end


Post 11:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:15:20
Post Date: Do you want an EB-1A green card?

Are you sick of hearing "your case is not EB-1A ready"?

Do you like practical tips?

If so, this FREE webinar is for you.

Join us next week to learn how you can start building your EB-1A profile immediately.

Gianfranco De Girolamo and I can't wait!

https://lnkd.in/gvwPE6SH

#immigration #greencard #EB1A 

end


Post 12:
Post: 2023-08-27 17:15:22
Post Date: What NOT to say in expert support letters.

And what to use instead.

❌Mr. Smith's work in the field is extraordinary.

✅ Mr. Smith is a leading voice in the project management field because he created a groundbreaking project management strategy that sent waves through the industry. 

--

❌Mr. Smith has made significant original contributions to the field.

✅ Before Mr. Smith's unique machine learning algorithm revealed the risks of using protein purification in XYZ vaccine, no one in the field had ever evaluated the risks using this machine learning method. Now pharmaceutical companies are mimicking this practice for multiple vaccines. 

(please excuse the probably incorrect scientific example that I made up)

---

❌Mr. Smith wrote an article highlighting this video game technology.

✅ Mr. Smith provided a roadmap for all videogame engineers to apply when designing four-legged creatures.

---

❌Mr. Smith is a pleasure to work with and the United States would be lucky to work with him.

✅ I am confident Mr. Smith will continue to advance the field because he has already altered the protocols that doctors use to assess dementia patients.

--

Remember...

Anyone can restate the law. 
Anyone can say you are extraordinary
Anyone can say that what you do is in the national interest.
Anyone can say you are one of the very few leaders in the field.

A lot less people can provide specific examples of HOW & WHY you got there. 

Remember...

This rule from grade school:

Show don't tell.

end


Post 13:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:15:24
Post Date: Introducing…
The butt rule of immigration law.

You read that right.
 
🍑 The butt rule 🍑 
 
This rule will tell you what kind of work you can and cannot do in the US.
 
Can I sell stuff on Etsy while on my H-1B?
Can I be an independent contractor?
Can I work remotely in the US?
Can I work remotely outside the US?
 
The answer to these questions…
 
🍑 The butt rule 🍑 
 
If your butt is in the US while you doing the work, you need a work permit.
 
If you have an H-1B (O-1, L-1, etc.), your status is tied to that specific job.
 
So, any additional work you do while your butt is in the US is not allowed (aka "unauthorized employment").
 
If your butt is outside the US, you don't need any US work permit to do the work. Even if you work for a US-based company.
 
So to prevent your butt from becoming unauthorized, make sure you use the butt rule.
 
Ok that's all. I already said butt too many times for LinkedIn.
 
#immigration #workpermit #thebuttrule

end


Post 14:
Post: 2023-08-27 17:15:26
Post Date: 3 EB-1A criteria that will lead to a loser case.

If you ONLY have these 3 criteria, your case will be hard to win.

What 3?

1. High salary
2. Significant original contributions
3. Leading/critical role at a distinguished organization

Those sound impressive.

What's wrong with them?

If these are your 3, then you probably have made a major impact on your company.

But USCIS will wonder how you are impacting your field outside of your company.

If your work was so original and significant to the field, then why aren't you getting media recognition, judging invitations, or receiving awards?

Where is the objective evidence of your impact?

I am sure someone has won an EB-1A with just these 3.

But if you want to make your life easier, not harder, then seek out some other criteria too.

Don't leave USCIS wondering.

Because you know what that means...

RFEs, NOIDs, denials.

No one wants that.

end


Post 15:
Post: 2023-09-26 17:15:28
Post Date: BAD evidence for EB-1A/NIW/O-1.

1. Open source contributions
2. Mentoring students
3. Youtube interviews 
4. School scholarships
5. Travel grants

---

There are always exceptions.

If your Youtube interview has millions of views that is different.

But I've even seen USCIS push back on that.

USCIS is old-fashioned.

They look to see old-fashioned evidence.

---

If you've done these "bad" things, they won't hurt you.

Because it can get your name out there in the field.

But think of this evidence as a stepping stone.

Not as the primary evidence in your case.

Submitting this kind of evidence will do more harm than good for an EB-1A case.

But doing this work can help get your name out there.

Because you put yourself in a position for other recognition.

Other recognition that will lead to GOOD evidence.

So maybe it's not all BAD.

end


Post 16:
Post: 2023-11-25 17:15:32
Post Date: Avoid this degree if you want an H-1B.

Business Administration.

Why?

To get an H-1B you have to show that your job is a "specialty occupation."

What does that mean?

That the job requires a specific degree.

For example, if you are a software engineer and you have a software engineering or computer science degree.

Or you're an architect and have an architect degree.

You want your degree to be as matchy-matchy as possible to the job.

And your degree also needs to be SPECIFIC.

Business Administration is not specific.

Time and time again, US immigration has said that a Business Administration degree is too general.

So if you're an F-1 student trying to decide your major, and you like business, maybe consider something else like accounting, finance, or economics.

end


Post 17:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:15:34
Post Date: How to cure Sunday scaries.

Bad answers only.

I’ll start:

Create a checklist of all the projects you completed last week. 

❌ Do not celebreate these wins. 

😵💫 Instead think of all the mistakes you might have made (Should I reread that brief I already submitted? Will I find a typo?).

Sunday scaries are gone. Now they are Sunday terrors. 

#sundayscaries #sundayfunday #mentalhealth

end


Post 18:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:15:41
Post Date: Impacted by layoffs?

Do you wish for a longer grace period? 
Do you wish US immigration was better?

If so, I want to hear from you!

I am heading to Congress next week to advocate for immigration reform.

I want to bring your stories.

Many of you have bravely shared them. 

Let's use them for change.

DM me or post here if you are open to sharing these stories with Congress.

Thank you!!

#immigration #techlayoffs #H1Blayoffs #immigrationreform

end


Post 19:
Post: 2023-08-27 17:15:43
Post Date: Work in the cybersecurity industry? 

Good news, sponsoring yourself for a green card just got easier.

A recent White House report explains how critical the cybersecurity industry is to the United States.

This report is PERFECT evidence for a National Interest Waiver green card petition.

It helps show 2 of the key requirements:

1) that your work is in the national interest

2) that it makes sense to waive the normal employer sponsor requirement

If you work on anything related to cybersecurity, you'll want to save this report for your NIW petition!

This report alone will not win you your NIW case, but it will certainly help.

#immigration #cybersecurity  #greencard #NIW 

end


Post 20:
Post: 2023-09-26 17:15:45
Post Date: My morning routine

Night before:
Set alarm early to get a brief done in the morning before my son wakes up.

5:30am: 
Alarm goes off, walk straight to my desk in PJs and start brief writing. 

5:45am: 
Son wakes up. Every other day he wakes up at 7:15. But not today.

6:00am:
He doesn't seem to be going back to sleep. My husband gets him out of bed & preps breakfast. 

7:15am: 
My husband leaves for the gym.

7:15-8am:
Read the tractor book at least 5 times. Attempt to dress a wiggly noodle child. Ask if he has to pee before we go. He says no.

8:15am: 
Drive to daycare. Hear "I have to go potty." Realize we forgot to put the green plastic potty in the car. Pull over, pull his pants down, wait for 15min in front of someone's nice lawn. He doesn't pee. Get back in the car.

8:35am:
Send a goofy good morning GIF to my team. Ready to take on the brief. Turn off phone notifications/distractions.  Except for the daycare app just in case anything happens.

8:50am: 
DAYCARE APP NOTIFICATION: "Hudson ate breakfast of yogurt and cookies." Cookies?! Rage about cookies for 15min. Text the other daycare moms.

9:15am: 
Back to brief writing. Print out a final draft. Edit with a red pen. Realize I forgot to sign up for swim lessons at 6:00am, so we will have to wait 3 more months for swim lessons. Feel guilty that I didn't get sunlight in my eyeballs or drink a liter of water first thing in the morning.

end


Post 21:
Post: 2023-12-25 17:15:47
Post Date: Interview waiver.

Sounds like a good thing, right?

Not so fast.

If you are applying for a visa at a consulate, you might think it would be great if I don't have to go in person to an interview (don't have to take time off work, arrange travel, practice interview questions, etc.).

But, if you want your visa ASAP, an interview waiver can be a BAD thing.

It's taking some consulates MONTHS to process an interview waiver case and return your visa to you.

And this is even when the consulate's website shows interview slots available the next day.

So you probably thought you'd get your visa back within a few days.

But this is not the case.

We recently had an H4 case out of Honduras where the person was eligible for an interview waiver.

Actually, she was REQUIRED to go through the interview waiver process.

Even though the Honduran consulate website said that there were visa appointments available for the next day, she was not allowed to book it.

Instead, she received instructions to send her documents to the consulate in an interview waiver packet.

The instructions said that the interview waiver processing usually takes 12 weeks!!

So now she is stuck waiting three months for her visa.

Yikes.

Interview waivers sound like they should make the process faster.

But unfortunately, this is not always the case.

And every consulate is different and it's not always clear how long you will have to wait.

So you're stuck with an unpredictable wait time on when you can travel to the US on your visa.

end


Post 22:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:15:52
Post Date: I had a consult last week that shocked me.

But it shouldn't have.

The potential client was a small business owner. He filed a green card application for an employee.

Here's what shocked me...

He filed it by himself.

He downloaded the I-140 and I-485 from the USCIS website, filled the forms out and filed them.

This wasn't an EB1 or NIW case.

This was for a typical employee. 

He needed to go through PERM.

I could not believe he would do such a thing. 

Without PERM. What was he thinking?!

But then I had to check myself.

How would he know this?

PERM is confusing/complex for most (all?) immigration lawyers. Why would a small business owner know about this?

If you are a small business, you might set up your business, pay your taxes, seek your business license, run payroll, all on your own.

Why not immigration too?

Sometimes DIY immigration is possible.

I love to tell potential clients when they can do things on their own. 

But sometimes it's not possible.

PERM is one of them.

So, after I wiped the shock off my face, I helped him strategize a non-DIY plan.

---

It's easy to forget/take for granted what we know as immigration lawyers.

This was a good reminder. 

#immigration #PERM #personaldevelopment

end


Post 23:
Post: 2023-07-28 17:15:56
Post Date: Didn't get selected for the H-1B lottery? GREAT NEWS. 

USCIS is going to do a second lottery this year!!




I am so happy to be wrong about my prediction on this.

end


Post 24:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:15:58
Post Date: Facing a layoff?
When does your 60-day grace period begin? 

🚨 MAJOR UPDATE 🚨

And it's good news!

USCIS just clarified the 60-day grace period "typically begins" on the last day of your paycheck.

Instead of the last day in the office (or virtual office).

This is great news!

Before this announcement, I told people that they should consider the grace period beginning on the day they were laid off.

I am thrilled to be wrong.

---

⬇️ Key takeaway ⬇️

If you are laid off and you receive severance pay, you have a better argument now more time to find a job in the US.

#immigration #layoffs #techlayoffs #H1Blayoffs #USCIS

---

*Update to post*
Based on great feedback from Ian Love.

The USCIS announcement does not say the 60-day grace period begins at the last day of severance. 

Instead it says "last day for which a salary or wage is paid." 

So it doesn't automatically mean that your 60-day grace period begins on the last day of your severance.

But it could help you argue that the 60-day grace period can start when your severance ends. 

There's still always a risk that USCIS could disagree.

But now you have more ammunition. 

end


Post 25:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:15:59
Post Date: I used to be a grammar snob.

But now I...

😱 Start sentences with "But" and "And" 
😱 End sentences with prepositions
😱 Write in incomplete sentences
😱 Use passive voice 
😱 Use "they" to refer to a singular person 

I bend the rules to make my writing easier to understand.

I bend the rules less when I write briefs.

To be honest, I am more like a recovering grammar snob.  But to be fair, my father corrects my grammar to this day, so I was raised this way.

Happy International Plain English Day.  Thanks Joseph Grasmick ✔ for bringing this fun holiday to my attention.

#grammar #writing #plainenglishday

end


Post 26:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:16:01
Post Date: 5 questions to ask your employer if you are laid off while on a temporary work visa.
 
1️⃣ Is there any wiggle room to move back the layoff date?
 
If there is any chance the answer could be yes then it's worth asking. This could help delay when your grace period begins and give you extra time to figure out your next step.
 
2️⃣ If you receive severance pay will the paystub look any different than your normal paystub?
 
When you change employers and file a new immigration application we typically submit paystubs to show that you are still employed with the previous employer. So if your paystub looks the same then it may be easier to change employers during severance.
 
3️⃣ Does your employer have any contacts that might be willing to sponsor you for a visa?
 
One of my clients recently did this and was introduced to her next sponsor. If you work for a smaller employer or one that you have a strong relationship with then you may be able to get some introductions that will help with your next work visa sponsorship.
 
4️⃣ Do they foresee being able to hire you back in the future?
 
Some companies are laying people off but then quickly rehiring. Maybe your manager or HR person can't share this, but if they could this can help you plan your next move.
 
5️⃣ Can I get a complete copy of my previous immigration applications (including all supporting documents)?
 
It will be much easier for any future immigration filings if you have all your documents from any previous applications. With the fast 60-day grace period, the more you can help speed things up the better.

#immigration #layoffs #techlayoffs #H1B #H1Blayoffs

end


Post 27:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:16:03
Post Date: How to prepare for an EB1A/NIW profile evaluation in 2 easy steps.

(and why sending your resume is not enough).
 
1️⃣ Define your field of expertise
 
USCIS wants to see that you are an expert in your field. But before you can show that you are an expert, you need to say WHAT you are an expert in. So think to yourself...What topic am I an expert in? What do people come to me for? Be specific. Software Engineering is WAY too broad, Machine Learning is also too broad. Narrow it, and then narrow it again.
 
2️⃣ Write a list of all the ways you have impacted the field outside of just your company.
 
The key to these "merit-based" green cards is that you have impacted your industry/field, not just your company/organization. So ask yourself...Are people doing things differently in the field because of my work? How/why did this happen?
 
---
 
Your resume will likely not cover these 2 questions. So sending over a resume is not enough. Otherwise, you'll likely spend the whole consult talking about these 2 topics. 
 
If you come prepared with these answers then your attorney can dive into the profile evaluation and provide practical tips on how to build your profile if it's not quite there yet.

Of course, it can also be useful to spend time with an attorney going through these 2 issues, but it will be more valuable if you've already given it some thought.

end


Post 28:
Post: 2024-03-24 17:16:05
Post Date: Why isn't my attorney filing my immigration case online?

Is my attorney behind the times?

No.

Many of us would love to file cases online.

But the reality is that they take at least 2x as long to file online.

Let's take the H-1B lottery registration for example.

This is required to be online.

And I am grateful to USCIS for trying to accept more online filings (I do not want to discourage this!).

Each year for online registrations I bake in a few days for the USCIS system to work out technical glitches.

Because every year there are at least a few days of errors/glitches that prevent people from registering. 

This is the norm.

This year I waited 5 days, thinking it would be enough.

I scheduled a call with my corporate clients to share screens and register. 

I do this rather than share instructions on how to do it on their own because frequently an error message appears or an email doesn't go through and so we have to troubleshoot on the call together.

I did this with one of my H-1B clients this week.

We made it all the way to the end of the registration and things seemed to be going smoothly.

But when we got to the last step, to pay the $10 registration fee, the payment page closed down and the system wouldn't let us pay.

The case is now stuck in "submitting."

We've reached out to the H-1B technical support email. 

And now we wait.

Other attorneys are facing the same problem.

And they reported that USCIS's fix is to delete the whole registration and have the attorney and client complete it again.

I will say this again, I do not want to discourage USCIS from the efforts they are making to go online (save the trees please!)...

But when attorneys have to bake in hours of extra time to hobble through the system with busy CEOs of companies trying to register, it is tough.

The system is not ready for prime time. We have to beta test on our clients.

For now paper is much more predictable, less time, and better for our clients.

So...if your attorney doesn't file your case online that's probably why. Not because they love paper.

end


Post 29:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:16:07
Post Date: 📍 EB-1A Quick Tip 📍 

Find the best publications for EB-1A in 30 seconds or less.

Peer reviewing? Publishing?

You'll want to know if the academic publication is strong or not.

How do you know what journals to focus on?

Use Google Scholar.

Google Scholar has rankings of academic publications.

You can sort by your field and even narrow into subcategories.

If you are building your EB-1A profile this is a great tool to focus your efforts on the top publications.

#immigration #EB1A #googlescholar

end


Post 30:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:16:09
Post Date: 3 main requirements to sponsor yourself for a green card.

That's it. 3.

BUT

These 3 "simple" requirements are not so simple.

For a national interest waiver (NIW) green card, you must show:

1️⃣ Your work has substantial merit and national importance
2️⃣ You are in a position to advance the field
3️⃣ It's a good thing that the U.S. government will not require you to show that no U.S. worker is available for the job

1 and 3 usually aren't so tricky.   But 2 is a landmine.

You need METRICS to show how YOU can advance your field.  

Maybe you're a thought leader with millions of followers, maybe you developed software that everyone is using, maybe you made a scientific discovery that everyone is relying on.  

This is the kind of evidence U.S. immigration is looking for.

The short list of requirements often deceives people into thinking that they easily qualify for NIW.  But sadly it's harder than it looks.

#immigration #greencard #NIW

end


Post 31:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:16:10
Post Date: "I hope this helps,"  

✍🏻 As an email sign off?

Yes.

I stole it from my favorite law school professor.  When I first read it at the bottom of an email to our class, I thought, how strange? But now I use it all the time.

When I use this sign off, it makes me think about whether the info in my email is actually helpful. Is it easy/pleasant to read? Will my client have less questions or more after reading it?

As an attorney, I am tempted to provide LOTS of warnings to my clients. But if I can't make the info easy to understand, or if the email is so long that no one will read it, is it helpful? Or is it just a move to cover my 🍑?

So I use this sign off as a natural check-in, to ask myself, did this email really help? 

And, it is a lot more fun than "Best." 

I hope this helps,
Tess

end


Post 32:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:16:14
Post Date: Pros & Cons of the L-1
 
Pros:
✅ No lottery 
✅ Fast processing (premium processing)
✅ Spouse can work right away
✅ Dual intent (ok to apply for green card at the same time)
 
Cons:
❌5-7 years max 
❌Must work abroad for at least 1 year & then transfer to US
❌Higher standard (than H-1B) & high RFE rate
❌Can't easily transfer employers

#immigration #L1 #prosandcons 

end


Post 33:
Post: 2023-09-26 17:16:16
Post Date: USCIS announced policy changes for EB-1.

What are they changes? Are they good or bad?

It's a mix.

The good:

✅ Some awards at the very top institutions can qualify, even if only available to the people within that org. 

✅ Being mentioned as part of a team in major media qualifies

✅ Invitations to speak at conferences = strong evidence

✅ Industry STEM trade show presentation = strong comparable evidence



The bad:

🔴 PR = a bad thing/not good evidence ("seemingly objective content" that is paid for is not good evidence)

🔴 Publications should be for "learned persons in the field" rather than the common reader

🔴 Job title is important for critical/leading role (senior, principal, founder, etc.)

🔴 More emphasis on being a leading author on a publication with a high index factor for the final merits determination


You can check out all the changes here in my very ugly document identifying the updates in red.

end


Post 34:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:16:18
Post Date: Sending in photos with your immigration application?

Don't make these 3 common mistakes.

🧐 Blurry photos

I know this sounds simple, but you'd be surprised at how many blurry or unclear photos people submit to immigration. Make sure the photo is easy to see. It doesn't even have to be in color, just clear.

🏷️ Unlabeled photos

List the names of the people in the photo, the month and year it was taken, and where/what you were doing. Without labels, the photos mean nothing to the immigration officers. 

📚️ Too many photos

The immigration officer does not have time to review 1000s of wedding photos or photos of you at every conference presentation in the world. Choose 5-10 max.

end


Post 35:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:16:20
Post Date: Steal my 3-step process to...

→ 3M post impressions
→ 10k followers
→ Intros to journalists at NPR and Bloomberg
→ 100+ paid strategy sessions booked
→ 3 national conference presentations
→ 1 publication in a top trade magazine

...All in less than 1 year.

Step 1: 
Think of a problem you solved today.

What did you already do for a client?
Don't reinvent the wheel for Linkedin. 
Take one small thing you already did.
And use it.

Step 2: 
Make it simple, post it on Linkedin.

Write down the issue & solution.
Take out all the jargon.
Pretend to explain it to your grandma.
Post it on Linkedin.

Step 3: 
Do steps 1 & 2 again tomorrow.

Try to stay consistent every weekday. 
Don't beat yourself up if you don't. 
I missed multiple weekdays. 
And it still worked.

---

Bonus step:
Have fun!
You have to like doing it to keep it up.

---

#linkedin #socialmedialawyer #ditigalmarketing

end


Post 36:
Post: 2024-05-23 17:16:21
Post Date: 🎉 EAD approved 🎉

...in 37 days!

This is my fastest yet.

The EAD is for a pending green card applicant (c9 category).

We filed her marriage-based adjustment of status in March (during the pre-April 1 fee hike craze).

And just over a month later we received her EAD approval.

I was shocked!

We are still waiting on receipt notices for other cases filed around the same time.

We also received an EAD renewal approval for an asylum applicant in about the same time.

Yet, for a recent H4 EAD we waited around 6 months for approval.

So it's still a bit all over the place.

But...

I am thrilled to see these fast EAD approvals for clients!!

end


Post 37:
Post: 2021-07-23 17:16:23
Post Date: A great read in the New Yorker about the barrage of immigration changes under the Trump Administration. 
https://lnkd.in/g4FUk57

It took 70 law students, 15 experts, and several computer programmers to monitor what each immigration practitioner was trying to stay on top of daily. Kudos to my fellow immigration professionals who lived it every day.

end


Post 38:
Post: 2023-11-25 17:16:25
Post Date: I heard that [healthcare, manufacturing, semiconductors] is in the national interest...

Should I change industries for a better shot at NIW?

No!

Here's why...

When you apply for NIW, you need to prove that you are in a position to push your field forward.

To show this, you need to have expertise/leadership in the field.

If you jump around industries, you may be good at several things, but to USCIS you aren't really an expert in any one particular field.

The more you can narrow your focus, the easier it is to show that you stand out.

For example, a software engineer with a narrow focus on AI for wearable exercise sensors is going to have a stronger case than a software engineer who does AI for fintech for 5 years and then changes to AI for a hospital after that.

So don't be tempted to jump around just because it sounds like an industry is in the national interest.

---

However...

This strong "No!" to jumping industries changes if you are an F1 student just starting your career.

If you are deciding what career to jump into as an F1, then sure, choose one that is critical to the US national interest.

But if you are a seasoned professional, you will do yourself more harm than good jumping industries.

end


Post 39:
Post: 2024-02-23 17:16:27
Post Date: Easiest way to build your profile for NIW?

Join a committee.

What does that mean?

Let me use myself as an example.

I am a dues-paying member of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

This is an industry organization for immigration attorneys.

A few years ago I decided to join a committee.

The Congressional Advocacy Committee.

On this committee, I meet with federal congressional offices to advocate for immigration reform.

I did not have to submit an application.

I volunteered myself.

And now I am the chair of the committee.

This kind of evidence would be great for an NIW petition.

Because I could easily say that my work is influencing US policy.

But I did not have to do much to get there.

Of course, I have to contribute to the committee (and I enjoy doing it).

But I didn't need to compete with a ton of people.

Or get nominated.

Or get elected.

Or show that I am the best in my field.

And I bet there's something like this in your industry too.

So...if you are looking for an NIW shortcut, use this one.

Join a committee!

...and the more you can link that committee's work to US policy, the better.

end


Post 40:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:16:31
Post Date: NIW seems to be growing in popularity. 

Why the change?
Did the law change?
Is there a limit on number of NIWs issued? 
Should I be worried?

If you have this feeling, your impression is right.

USCIS does seem more open to approving NIW petitions right now. 

Some are calling it the "golden age" of NIW.

Good news is that there isn't a max number of NIWs that can be issued.

Bad news is that all the approvals will all go into the EB2 line of the visa bulletin. So you will see more of a backlog in the EB2 green card line.

#immigration #NIW #EB2 #EB2NIW

end


Post 41:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:16:33
Post Date: Can I use my O-1 support letters for my EB-1A?

Short Answer: Not really.

Why not?

The letters already have all the juicy details about your accomplishments...

Why can't you use them for EB-1A (or an O-1 renewal)?

Because you must show that you have "sustained acclaim" in your field.

What in the world does that mean?

It means that you have made an impact in your field over time and you CONTINUE TO make an impact in the field.

If you submit old letters with old dates, USCIS will look at them and say, hey you haven't show us how you continued to impact the field since your last O-1. So we don't want to approve your case.

But luckily, you don't have to throw those letters out.

You can minimally update them with your new accomplishments.

And maybe add in 2-3 more letters from experts who can talk about the recent amazing things you've done in the field.

So not all is lost. 

The O-1 letters are still a good place to start.

#immigration #O1 #EB1 #EB1A 

end


Post 42:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:16:35
Post Date: #1 EB-1A Question Answered

🚨Warning🚨 

You won't like the answer 

---

The question:

How many [citations, peer reviews, publications, awards] do I need?

The answer:

There is no set number. 
There is no useful range.  
There is no matrix.

It's a sliding scale. If you have amazing evidence in one category, then you might not need as much in another.

---

I wish USCIS kept metrics on each applicant's criteria. That way an EB-1A genius out there could create a matrix that we could all use.  

But for now, we are stuck with a mushy standard/feeling to determine "what is enough?"

#immigration #greencard #EB1A

end


Post 43:
Post: 2023-10-26 17:16:37
Post Date: Some light vacation reading 🤓

Doing a deep dive on the proposed H1B role. 

…will report back.



✌🏻out USA

end


Post 44:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:16:39
Post Date: ⛔️ The number one FLAW in immigration support letters? ⛔️ 

Simply repeating the legal requirements for the visa.

Let me give you an example.

Let's say you are applying for an EB1 Extraordinary Ability Green Card.  You'll need support letters from experts in your field to explain your extraordinary ability.

One of your experts writes a letter saying some really wonderful things about you like:

⭐️You are one of the small percentage of people who has risen to the very top of your field of endeavor.

⭐️You have sustained international acclaim in your field.

⭐️Your achievements have been internationally recognized in your field of expertise.

❌ But guess what? These statements don't mean anything, because they are just quotes from the legal requirements for an EB1 green card.

Anyone can repeat the legal requirements in a letter.

What's harder (and better) is to explain:

✅ WHY you are considered a leader in the field

✅ HOW you achieved international acclaim

✅ HOW you pushed the field forward 

✅ WHY and HOW other experts rely on your work

Even if you have the best expert in the world supporting your case, it won't help much if you fall into this common expert letter trap.

#immigration #EB1 #immigrationsupportletters

end


Post 45:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:16:41
Post Date: 95% of asylum work permits are delayed AGAINST THE LAW.

😱 This number is shocking. 

The law requires the government to process initial asylum work permits in 30 days.

Yet, this is only happening in 5% of cases.

What can you do if you are in the other 95%?

🚨 Sue the government 🚨 

You can file a lawsuit against the government to force them to obey the law and process your work permit ASAP.

I can happily report from experience that these lawsuits work, and they work FAST.

In other words...

👉🏻 95% of applicants can (and should) sue the government.

#immigration #workpermit #EAD #delayedworkpermit

end


Post 46:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:16:43
Post Date: There are 2 kinds of people in the world:

1️⃣ People who throw away their old IDs
2️⃣ People who keep a stack of all their old IDs in a drawer (probably next to a stack of old electronics)

Which one is better?

Camp #2.

I know, I know, the minimalists will say thank those old IDs for their service (a la Marie Kondo) and say bye bye. 👋👋👋

But for immigration, you should keep that "clutter."

Why?

👉️ Keep your old green card and you could use it in the future to travel even if you lose your most recent green card.

👉️ Keep your old passport to show that you maintained your status the entire time you were in the US.

👉️ Keep your old naturalization certificate so that you can submit it to USCIS if you want to sponsor a family member.

In immigration, it helps to be a hoarder! 

#immigration #greencard #immigrationdocuments

____

P.S. What camp are you in?

end


Post 47:
Post: 2022-07-23 17:16:45
Post Date: What goes fast in the world of U.S. immigration?

Usually nothing. But luckily there is at least one exception: When you sue the U.S. government to force them to take action on a long-pending case. 

This process is called a “writ of mandamus” which is just fancy lawyer speak for asking a court to order the government to take action on a case—you don’t need to know what it is called to use it.

Oftentimes immigration cases get stuck languishing for months and even years at USCIS. However, suing the government can be a fast solution to make USCIS finally review (and hopefully approve) your case.

Our team at DGO Legal - De Girolamo Oyhanarte LLP just won a case in 24 hours! 

Our clients were waiting for their asylum employment authorization documents (EADs) to be approved for over 90 days, even though the law requires USCIS to come to a decision on these cases within 30 days. Our clients tried to contact USCIS through all the normal routes to try to get a resolution, but nothing worked.

So, we prepared our filing (called a “complaint”) to sue the U.S. government and provided it to the U.S. attorney, giving the government a heads up that we intended to sue USCIS.

The U.S. attorney quickly responded that the office would contact USCIS to see if the case could be resolved.

Less than 24 hours later our clients’ EADs were approved.

end


Post 48:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:16:46
Post Date: If your visa is denied at a consulate, what can you do?

Not much. But here is one *NEW* exception...

You can sue the consulate to correct an unfair denial. BUT...  

🍑 And this is a BIG but 🍑

You can probably only do this if your spouse is a U.S. citizen.

Most of the time you CANNOT sue the consulate for an unfair/unlawful/unreasonable denial.

This is because of the "doctrine of consular non-reviewability."  

This is a fancy way of saying: you're not allowed to ask a court review (and reverse) a consular officer's decision, even if it is against the law.

But you may be able to get around this restriction, IF the consulate denied your green card AND you are married to a U.S. citizen.

It's a small exception.  But worth knowing.  

#immigration #consulate #visadenial #DOS 

end


Post 49:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:16:50
Post Date: Facing a layoff?

Did you know your 60-day grace period could be cut short...to as little as 0 days?!

YIKES. How can you prevent this?

Stay in the U.S.

If you leave the U.S. then your grace period is over.  

Over. 

And if you are outside the U.S. when your company announces your layoff...

Guess what? 

You get 0 days.  

You are stuck outside. 

You will have to get a friend to pack up your house and send your belongings.

⬇️ Key takeaway ⬇️

If your employer is announcing layoffs, stay in the United States.

---

#techlayoffs #layoffs #immigration #H1B 

end


Post 50:
Post: 2023-10-26 17:16:52
Post Date: Tryin’ to find your way through the U.S. immigration maze like… 



Happy Friday my friends 🤪

end


Post 51:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:16:55
Post Date: 8 things no one told you about the J-1 visa.

1️⃣ If your visa says "subject to 212(e)" then you are required to return to your home country for 2 years after your J-1.

2️⃣ There are very few ways to get out of this requirement.

3️⃣ Even if you marry a US citizen you have to satisfy the home residency requirement before you can get a marriage green card. Unless you get a waiver.

4️⃣ Check all your DS-2019s to see why you are subject to the 2-year requirement (look for the checked boxes on page 1).

5️⃣ If your J-1 program received US government funding it's a lot harder to get a waiver.

6️⃣ If the only reason you are subject to the 2-year requirement is because of the "skills list" then you might be a good candidate for a waiver. 

7️⃣ You can call your home country's consulate (this is your home country's consulate based in the US, not the US consulate based abroad) to ask about the country's stance on no objection statements.

8️⃣ Some countries object to all waivers. Some countries grant them easily.

The J-1 is a great visa to come to the US on. But it comes with some unpredictable baggage, especially the 2-year home residency requirement.

#immigration #J1 #homeresidencyrequirement #waiver

end


Post 52:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:16:57
Post Date: How to build your EB1A/NIW profile for free.

Start posting on social media.

---

But...how many followers/views/subscribers is enough for EB1A/NIW?

I have good news and bad news.

Bad news first: there's no magic number. 

Good news: you don't need millions (or even tens of thousands) to make it useful.

It's not about the followers.

It's about gaining recognition in your field. And putting yourself in a position to do more traditional EB1A/NIW activities like conference presentations, publications, and media interviews.

Don't let the feeling of needing millions of followers overwhelm you.

It's one of the most practical things you can do right now to start building your EB1A/NIW profile.

And the best part is that it's free!

end


Post 53:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:16:58
Post Date: If you get married to a U.S. citizen, do you automatically get a green card?

A lot of U.S. citizens think that the answer is yes.

But the answer is NO.

Even a very straightforward marriage case is not automatic.

Instead, you will have to:

📜 File multiple applications
💰️ Pay over $800-$1500 in filling fees
👀 Get a background check
⏳️ Wait ~1-2 years for your case to be approved

It's not as easy as Sandra Bullock and Ryan Reynolds make it seem in The Proposal (and I think they were trying to make it look hard).

#immigration #greencard #marriagegreencard

end


Post 54:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:17:00
Post Date: 🚨 HUGE NEWS for H-1Bs 🚨

Do you wish the H-1B grace period was 180 days, not 60?

Good news!

The White House just recommended this change.

COMING SOON the H-1B grace period could be 180 days!

---

What does that mean if you are facing a layoff?

Can you benefit right now? No.

This recommendation will be put into a regulation (aka a law).

The White House predicts it will happen in about 3 months.

Until it's in the regulation we won't know the details of the law & how it will apply.

So this is great news for future H-1B layoffs.

But if you were recently laid off, this doesn't help you right now.

#layoffs #techlayoffs #H1B #H1Bgraceperiod

end


Post 55:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:17:02
Post Date: H-1B lottery selections have begun! 

🎉 We just received our first H-1B selection 🎉

—-

If you have not received your selection yet, don't stress. 

It doesn't necessarily mean you weren't selected. 

You'll have to wait until 3/31/23 to know for sure.

#immigration #H1B #H1Blottery

end


Post 56:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:17:04
Post Date: 🤺 NIW vs. EB1A 🤺

Which one is better?

Short answer: Usually NIW.
HUGE exception: If you are born in India or China.

NIW is generally easier to get than EB1A. It has less requirements, less special criteria, and less of that "you must be Einstein to get this" kind of vibe.

That's not to say that the NIW is EASY. It is NOT for everyone who works in a field of national importance.

But generally, if you are not from India or China, I recommend trying NIW instead of EB1A.  

#immigration #NIW #EB1A

end


Post 57:
Post: 2024-07-01 17:17:05
Post Date: I heard the Supreme Court overturned a major case (Chevron) today.

How will it impact my immigration case?

For most of you, it won't.

---

Even though this is a big change in the law.

It's not a big change for most immigration applications.

It will only really impact you if you receive a DENIAL.

...which hopefully you won't!

If USCIS denies your EB-1A or O-1, for example...

And you challenge the denial in federal court...

Then, it might help you.

Because now, the federal court doesn't have to defer to USCIS's reasoning in the case.

The court can step in and say, no USCIS, your analysis of this grey area of the law (which is a lot of areas in immigration) is wrong.

In the past, the federal court couldn't disregard USCIS's decision so easily.

---

So although this Supreme Court case is big news for us lawyers (and you'll see a lot of buzz about it on this platform today), for you (immigrants/visa applicants), it's not a huge immediate change.

I am curious to see how it will shape/change immigration law.

But for now, don't expect it to drastically change anything for your immigration application.

end


Post 58:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:17:07
Post Date: Delayed immigration case? Want an answer now?

Here are your options:

📞 Call the USCIS contact center

Pros: 
✅ Free

Cons: 
❌ Long wait times
❌ You may never be able to get a human. 
❌ You may never get called back.  
❌ You may get a human who cannot help you.
❌ Only works for USCIS cases

---

💻️ Online USCIS inquiry:

Pros: 
✅ Can be free (but sometimes useful to have an attorney submit it for you)
✅ Shows you are trying to get your case resolved (good idea if you want to sue the government in the future) 

Cons:
❌ Can only use if outside normal posted processing times 
❌ Long wait times for response
❌ May never get a useful response ("Your case remains pending and in the queue")
❌ Only works for USCIS cases

---

📝Congressional inquiry

Pros:
✅ A real human reviews your case
✅ Congressional immigration caseworkers typically care and want to help

Cons:
❌ Each Congressional office has different requirements/forms making it confusing
❌ Even if the office wants to help, USCIS may ignore them too

---

👩🏻⚖️Sue the government (writ of mandamus)

Pros: 
✅ Fast
✅ You might get a resolution even before you have to litigate (from a US attorney)
✅ A federal judge reviews your case 

Cons:
❌ Can be expensive 
❌ You must show that your case is unreasonably delayed

---

⚖️Have an attorney contact the USCIS Field Office

Pros: 
✅ Can be fast
✅ Inexpensive

Cons:
❌ USCIS will ignore the request and tell you to use the other options
❌ Only ever works for EXTREME cases of clear legal error 
❌ Will look bad for you and the attorney if you use the contact unless it is for a very unique situation
❌ Only works for USCIS cases

---

Any other tools you've use to speed up your immigration case?

#immigration #USCIS #delayedvisa

end


Post 59:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:17:09
Post Date: I used to receive 500-1000 emails a day.

I once came back to 70 emails after a 1hr lunch workout.

I would get anxiety every time I went on vacation because of the avalanche of emails awaiting me upon my return.

I spent all day replying to emails instead of doing my substantive work. 

I was not lawyering. I was an electronic file clerk, dragging and dropping my emails into my 100s of client folders.

Law school did not prepare me for this. 

Something had to CHANGE.

I scoured the internet for tips/tricks/email voodoo.

Here’s what I found that worked:

🕑 Time-blocking. 

I started only opening my emails twice a day. Only on my computer. I took my work emails off my phone. And I followed the “touch it once” approach. If I was opening the email I was replying, filing, or delegating it.

🛑 Stop using the inbox as a to-do list.

I came up with a better to-do list tracker than my inbox. A place where I could actually prioritize tasks and not feel overwhelmed every time I opened my email because of all the tasks hanging out in my inbox.

🗑 Delete all client folders.

I got rid of my 100s of folders. Now I basically have 3: FYI; To Do; Completed. I realized that the email search function is incredible. I started renaming my email subjects to make my emails even easier to find.

📭 Aim for 0 inbox each day

I aim to clear out my inbox everyday. This doesn’t always mean completing a response to every email. It might mean adding an email response to my to-do list for tomorrow. But at least I can evaluate its priority compared to other tasks instead of just hitting reply.

I am not perfect at this. Especially now in my current job where I don’t get so many emails a day. But I try. And it helps save me from the email spiral.

What keeps you from going down the 🌀?

#email #emailmanagement #zeroinbox

end


Post 60:
Post: 2024-06-22 17:17:11
Post Date: 👋 Hey NIW applicants 👋

Don't fall into the proposed endeavor trap!

...Do this instead.

---

Stop spending hours, days, courses, time, energy, and money stressing about your proposed endeavor... 

• Trying to understand what it means
• Trying to copy others that have won NIW
• Trying to draft a dissertation on it for USCIS

There's something about the "proposed endeavor" language that makes people go nuts trying to define it.

It's probably because it sounds like fancy legalese.

But don't be fooled by this "magic" language.

Instead...

Let's throw it out.

What do I mean?

Just focus on the work that you will be doing in the US.

And how this work is related to the work you've accomplished in the field so far.

Try to identify a narrow field that you are an expert in...

Then think about how you've contributed to it in the past and how you plan to contribute to it in the future.

This is what USCIS wants to know.

It's pretty simple.

But for some reason when it's called a "proposed endeavor," it sounds a lot more complicated.

So don't let NIW scare you with this fancy language.

It's simpler than you think.

end


Post 61:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:17:13
Post Date: 🎉 9th Circuit appeal win 🎉
 
We won after...
 
😩 The immigration court denied the client's case. 
😩 The BIA denied the client's case. 
 
We filed a 9th Circuit appeal challenging the denial.
 
3 months after we filed our brief, OIL (the agency that represents the government in these appeals) agreed to remand the case.

😁 This is a victory for the client.

The government agreed that there were some remaining issues in the case that should be addressed, so they aren't going to fight it at the 9th Circuit.
 
The client gets a new day in immigration court to correct the improper denial.

Huge shout out to the incredible immigration litigator David Gardner for bringing me in and guiding me through this case. 

#immigration #appeal #ninethcircuit

end


Post 62:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:17:16
Post Date: Not a PhD. Not a scientist. Not a researcher. 

Can you still win EB-1? 

Yes.

Are you a software engineer at a major tech company? 

Is EB-1 an option for you?

Yes.

It's not easy, but it is doable.

Praneet Chaturvedi and I dive into how.

Thank you Praneet for inviting me on your show. 

Not only are you a leader in your field, a USCIS recognized genius, and a great interviewer, you are spending your valuable time helping others with their immigration journeys!! You are a gem.

end


Post 63:
Post: 2023-10-26 17:17:17
Post Date: Can I extend my H-1B past the 6yr max even if my PERM has not been filed yet?

Will I have to go through the lottery again?

With the lengthy PERM process, many people are running up against the 6yr H-1B max out date.

PERMs aren't getting filed before reaching the 5yr mark on the H-1B and people are scared they will have to go through the lottery again.

But I have good news.

Your PERM does not have to be filed by the 5yr mark on your H-1B.

You will still be eligible for an extension past the 6yrs on your H-1B once your PERM is filed and 365 days have gone by.

You will probably have a gap in employment.

You will probably have to leave the US.

But as long as your company is OK with this and will still have the PERM/I-140 position available to you, then you will be able to come back in H-1B.

You will not have to go through the H-1B lottery again.

---

This part of the law confuses me every time.  I always have to bring up the law and read it again.

So I am sharing it to hopefully cement it into my brain too.

end


Post 64:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:17:19
Post Date: Do you want your child to get a green card?

Good news. It just got a little easier.

USCIS announced an update this week that will help more kids get green cards.

How?

By using a chart that will lock the child's green card eligibility date sooner.

Huh?

Ok stick with me here...

If you are applying for a green card, and your children are dependents in your case, then your kids must be under 21 to be eligible for the green card.

Because of major green card backlogs that can take 20+ years, your 1-year-old child could be over 21 by the time your green card becomes available. This is called "aging out."

So your child could be stuck without a green card (even when the rest of your family gets them).

Ok so how did it get better for kids?

USCIS announced they will lock in your child's age sooner.

USCIS typically uses 2 different charts to determine when someone is eligible to apply for a green card (2 charts in the visa bulletin).

I do not want to get into the weeds of the visa bulletin, because ew no one wants that, but what you need to know is that one chart is typically faster/better than the other (the "dates for filing" chart).

And USCIS is now saying, ok we will lock in your child's age for the green card based on this "better/faster" chart. This way, less time will pass and fewer kids will "age out."

Oof this is a confusing one. I hope this provides just a little clarity.

⬇️Key takeaway⬇️
Things just got a little better for kids waiting in long green card lines.

end


Post 65:
Post: 2024-01-24 17:17:22
Post Date: Want to file your NIW or EB-1A in 2024?

Follow these 27 action items.
...and  you'll be well on your way!

 1. Define your field of expertise
    
 2. Explain it in 1 sentence
    
 3. Make sure it isn't too broad 
    
 4. Explain it in nontechnical terms
    
 5. Explain it to your grandma
    
 6. List 2-3 things you've done to change the field
    
 7. Write down HOW each thing changed the field
    
 8. Ask yourself if you've impacted the field outside of the companies you've worked for
    
 9. Make a list of things you've done for your field that were not just for your employer
    
10. If you haven't done much outside your company, brainstorm how you could
    
11. Ask your former professors about professional associations in your field
    
12. Join the professional associations
    
13. Look for leadership positions within the associations
    
14. Research national/international conferences in your field
    
15. Volunteer to present at a conference
    
16. Ask your manager if your company has any external facing opportunities
    
17. Compile a spreadsheet of metrics to show what you've done for your current and past employers
    
18. Google professional publications in your industry
    
19. Find out where people are talking about your field online (not blogs or YouTube videos, but other platforms, like TechCrunch or AI Today)
    
20. Reach out the publications/platforms and see if they need authors or experts to weigh in on articles
    
21. Google awards in your industry
     
22. Read about the criteria for the awards
    
23. See if you can get nominated for an award (ask a colleague/mentor to nominate you, if that's what it takes)
    
24. Write a list of people who have been impacted by your work
    
25. Think of the highest person at your company who can attest to the work you've done, take them out for coffee/lunch (don't ask them for anything, just maintain the relationship)
    
26. Write a useful post on LinkedIn about your work
    
27. Book a strategy session with me for personalized action items

Hopefully, with this list you'll stick with your NIW/EB-1A New Year's resolution.  

Happy 2024 profile building my friends!

end


Post 66:
Post: 2023-09-26 17:17:24
Post Date: The October Visa Bulletin is here!

Unlike other years we did NOT get a big reset.

Many will still face long backlogs to get a green card.

- Indian EB-1 = 6-year backlog!
- EB-1 for other countries = no backlog
- EB-2 NIW for other countries = ~1 yr backlog

end


Post 67:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:17:27
Post Date: K1 fiancé visa vs. Marriage green card

Which one is better?

Use this comparison chart to find out.

https://lnkd.in/gwqY8y3m

end


Post 68:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:17:29
Post Date: 🎉 Green card delivered 🎉

This is music to my ears. Especially after a rough road.

The client's story is a familiar one.

A green card improperly delayed, closed, or denied.

The applicant makes all possible efforts to get the case resolved.

- Daily USCIS contact center calls. No resolution. 
- USCIS Online Inquiry. No resolution.
- Ombudsman report. No resolution.
- Congressional inquiry. No resolution.

The ending is not so familiar.

- Hired DGO Legal - De Girolamo Oyhanarte LLP. Green card approved and received 10 days later.

How?

We could have sued the government, and we were ready. But we tried one last ditch effort to present the case clearly to USCIS. We wanted a fast and inexpensive solution for our client.

And it worked.

The client saved literally thousands of dollars avoiding federal litigation.

The green card arrived in 10 days.

The best part…the client found me on LinkedIn. Happy to report such a positive outcome for my LinkedIn community!

#immigration #greencard #greencarddelay

end


Post 69:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:17:32
Post Date: Top 3 H-1B Layoff Questions Answered

---

#usimmigration #H1B #H1Blayoffs #techlayoffs #india #china

end


Post 70:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:17:34
Post Date: 2 things every business should know about immigration law:

1️⃣ The H-1B is a great visa for international employees, BUT there's only ~30% chance that the employee will actually get it (because it's a lottery). 

2️⃣ A green card can be a good option for an international employee.  BUT it takes at least ~1.5-3 years until the employee has the green card in hand to work for your company.  So, get started early!

#immigration #businessimmigration #H1B #greencard

end


Post 71:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:17:39
Post Date: This weekend I dropped the ball.
 
But not in the way you think.

---

One of the hardest things about immigration work for me is disconnecting.
 
I feel your stories/experiences so deeply that I want to do everything in my power (and out of my power) to help.
 
When I was lamenting about this to a therapist friend she told me about…
 
The ball.
 
Your client comes into your office with a heavy ball.
 
You hold it for them when they are there.
 
When your client leaves you are supposed to give it back.

But sometimes you don't.
 
But if you don't, you keep loading up with more and more until you can't carry them anymore.
 
They all fall out of your arms.

---
 
I often forget to pass back the ball.
 
I hold onto it.
 
I wake up in the middle of the night with it.
 
But this weekend, I worked on letting go.
 
And dropping the ball.

#immigration #OOO #disconnect #disconnecttoreconnect #personaldevelopment 

end


Post 72:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:17:43
Post Date: 60-day grace period about to expire?

Should you apply for a "compelling circumstances" EAD?

Probably not.

---

Why not?

❓️ It's too unpredictable

Even though USCIS announced that a "compelling circumstances" EAD might help laid-off tech workers, we have no idea how USCIS is going to interpret it in this context. It's up to the USCIS officer to decide whether your circumstances are compelling enough. And a layoff alone is probably not enough.

⏳️ It will take too long

EADs take a long time.  Think 6-8 months, but sometimes even more.  During this time you can't work. And in the end, you could get a denial.

🆘 It can cause future immigration problems

Even if you get an EAD approval, you are not in any status.  You have work authorization, but that's it.  This is similar to DACA, meaning that the US government isn't going to deport you, but you are not in any underlying status.  Without status, you typically can't change status (like back to H-1B) or adjust status (to get a green card).

--- 

Unfortunately, leaving the US may be the safest path to preserve your future U.S. immigration options.

#immigration #techlayoffs #H-1Blayoffs #india #china #latinamerica

end


Post 73:
Post: 2023-07-28 17:17:45
Post Date: 🔪 EB-1A profile killer 🔪

Want to build your EB-1A profile? 
Here's what NOT to do...

Contribute only to your company.

You might work for a top international company. 
You might receive the company's top awards.
You might have a super high salary.
You might judge 100s of employees' work.
You might have transformed the company.  

I'm impressed. 
But USCIS will not be. 

To win EB-1A, you need to show how you are influencing people outside of just the company you work for.

These people need to be within your field.

For example, if you are a data scientist, how are other data scientists relying on your work? What method did you create within data science that changed the way data scientists do things?

If you only have evidence that you contributed to your company (and even your company's major clients), this is not enough.

Your EB-1A will fail.

The good news is, you can avoid this!

Focus on opportunities in your industry outside of your company, and you'll put yourself in a better position for EB-1A.

end


Post 74:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:17:48
Post Date: 1 tiny thing that could blow up an immigration application:

If your employer sponsor never updates their Dun & Bradstreet (D&B) profile.

Huh?

D&B is a website that tracks businesses. 

USCIS uses it to verify that the information in your immigration application is correct (that everything VIBEs). 

If the information on the D&B website about the employer sponsor is different than what is in your immigration application, you will likely face problems...think RFEs, NOIDs, oh my!

So before you file, make sure the employer D&B is up to date. 

end


Post 75:
Post: 2022-07-23 17:17:50
Post Date: I need to say something potentially controversial.
 
I HATE the words "evangelist" and "evangelize."
 
Unless you are working in a church spreading Christian gospel, I do  not want to see these words to describe a job.
 
More and more I see tech companies with job titles like "Evangelist" and job descriptions containing phrases like "evangelizing digital transformation." 
 
When I see this, I think to myself, what does this person actually do on a day-to-day basis? Do they go door-to-door in countries throughout the world spreading the gospel of technology? Maybe they are doing proverbial door knocking, and I am sure they are doing important work, but I am still left not knowing what they actually do in a typical day at work.
 
What does this have to do with immigration law? Am I just venting about other professions that have nothing to do with my own? 
 
Well no, attorneys who practice business immigration must explain to U.S. immigration officers—in the most concise and easily  digestible format—why a job qualifies for a specific kind of immigration status (a.k.a. visa).
 
So, if I am spending a lot of time racking my brain about what an evangelist actually does on the day-to-day, you better believe an officer with an overburdened workload and sometimes just 2-5 minutes to review your case does not want to be spending time pondering the same thing. And if it’s your application, you definitely don’t want them to be confused the moment they read your job title. I am not saying an “evangelist” role won’t get an employment-based immigration visa, I am just saying why don’t we make our lives easier and throw out this bewildering term so we don’t have to spend time unpacking what it means.
 
Ok that’s it, I’ll step off my pulpit, I am done evangelizing the "elimination of evangelism” in tech.

end


Post 76:
Post: 2022-07-23 17:17:51
Post Date: I recently received 2 pieces of critical feedback.

One from my father and one from my employer.

The feedback from my father came after I went on a trip and left my son with my parents for the first time. As the Type A mom that I am, I left detailed notes for my parents to help them with caring for my 3-month old. When I came back from the trip, my dad left an “Edited Copy” of these notes on my kitchen counter, pointing out that I misspelled ONE word. I couldn’t believe that he edited my quickly typed out baby checklist—of course I did not spellcheck it! 

But at the same time, I could believe it, because it was exactly what my whole childhood was like. I was lucky enough to have a father who devoted time to editing my work from day one—from continually correcting my use of “I” and “me,” to pulling the massive dictionary out at dinner to define words I didn’t know, to providing me “edited copies” of my high school Heart of Darkness essay into the wee hours of the night.  Although this critical feedback was not always fun—there were certainly more than a few tear-filled arguments—with each edit, I became a better writer. I learned that my dad was coming from a place of kindness and that he gave me so much feedback because he wanted me to succeed. 

As a surprise to probably no one, my dad’s feedback style has influenced the way I give feedback in the workplace. 

This brings me to the second piece of critical feedback I received recently. My colleague advised me that an area where I have room for improvement is in how I deliver critical feedback to others. This also showed up on a management test I took, which stated: “Likely to give feedback in a critical, negative manner.”

This personal feedback was not new to me, it’s something that has come up before and something I absolutely want to work on. From a young age my dad indoctrinated me into an “all edits and critical feedback come from a positive place” mentality—no matter the delivery or amount of feedback given. But I recognize that judgment can seep into critical feedback, and that never feels good. 

So now, I am working on making sure my critical feedback doesn’t come from a place of judgment. 

And guess what? 

I’ll be keeping my dad’s “Edited Copy” as a reminder to check myself on how and when I deliver feedback.

end


Post 77:
Post: 2024-04-23 17:17:55
Post Date: Email approval notice from USCIS...

Time to celebrate?

Most likely, yes.

But the super risk-averse lawyer in me always waits for the physical approval notice to truly celebrate.

I've never had USCIS change its mind after an emailed approval notice.

But I've seen USCIS do some other unpredictable things.

So I always want my clients to know that there is some tiny risk that the outcome could change.

USCIS could say hey, we didn't mean to send that email.

This is within the realm of possibility.

It's my job to identify the risk.

And then your (and your employer's) job to determine how you feel about it and then how to act.

end


Post 78:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:17:56
Post Date: 🤓 Citations.  If you want an NIW or EB1 green card, it might feel like the only way to get one is through 100s of citations to your work.

Are there any alternatives?

Yes.

Don’t get me wrong, a strong citation record is extremely helpful for NIW or EB1A.

But…

💡 Here are 3 ways you can build your case for NIW or EB1 that don’t involve academic citations:

1️⃣ Data on how many people have implemented your work (such as a software program you created)

2️⃣ Metrics on how much money your specific project/work brought into your company

3️⃣ Significant venture capital funding secured 

USCIS loves objective data, so the more raw numbers you can show the better!

#immigration #NIW #EB1

end


Post 79:
Post: 2024-01-24 17:18:01
Post Date: 🎉 NIW Approved 🎉

In 17 days!

For an international animal lawyer with 3 citations.

When I first met with this client her profile was not ready.

But now she has an approval in hand.

When we first met, we talked about strategies to build her profile.

And just 6 months later she came back having done the work.

6 months. 

That's all it took to be NIW-ready.

So we went forward on her NIW.

She didn't wait for her employer to start the PERM process.

Now she has an I-140 approval.

Building your NIW profile works!!

And it's much faster than waiting around for PERM.

P.S. We did not submit evidence of her citation record, she had plenty of other persuasive evidence. There's no requirement that you have to give USCIS your Google Scholar page.

end


Post 80:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:18:03
Post Date: 3 things every startup founder needs to get an H-1B visa:

1️⃣ You can be FIRED. If you are a founder, you probably want control over your business.  But complete control is BAD for your H-1B.  The board of directors must have the true ability to fire you.  Your incorporation docs should reflect this.  And if possible, it's best if you own less than 50% of the business.

2️⃣ You will be paid a SALARY.  You may be tempted to pay yourself in only equity/not pay yourself at all.  But for an H-1B you must make at least a "prevailing wage." This is a specific amount set by the US government.  You must show that your company can afford to pay this salary (think at least $500k in the bank).

3️⃣ You have LUCK.  You only have a ~30% chance of getting an H-1B. Unless you already have one, then you don't need the luck... You can change employers and you don't have to face the lottery system again.

💡 Key takeaway: Think about the H-1B the moment you set up your startup.

#immigration #businessimmigration #H1B #startups

end


Post 81:
Post: 2024-05-23 17:18:04
Post Date: 🎉 O-1 Approved 🎉 

...in 13 days
(premium processing).

This client is an executive producer who has worked on commercials for some of the biggest brands in the world.

We used the O-1B category for extraordinary ability in the arts.

O-1B is a little easier than O-1A and even though you may not think of arts when it comes to commercials, it can work!

This was a fun one.

I loved learning about my client's craft!

I can't wait to see what she does next.

end


Post 82:
Post: 2024-03-24 17:18:08
Post Date: I’m happy to share that I’m starting a new position as Law Graduate at MinterEllison!

end


Post 83:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:18:10
Post Date: 🎉 Work permit (EAD) approved in less than 2 hours. 

YES, you read that right.  I said HOURS. 

We did this by threatening to sue the U.S. government to force them to take action on our client's work permit application.

We emailed the US attorney our complaint (a document that explains why we are suing the government and why the work permit should be approved now).

The US attorney quickly responded that she would reach out to USCIS to try to resolve the case.

Within 2 hours, USCIS approved our client’s work permit.

#immigration #EAD #expeditedworkpermit

end


Post 84:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:18:15
Post Date: Is it worth the $$ to hire a PR agency for your NIW/EB1?

Yes, but...

Not any old PR firm.

Wait...I thought "there's no such thing as bad publicity?"

Guess, what? for NIW/EB1 there can be, kind of.

What do I mean?

Bad PR:
- You pay money to get your name out in major media publications 
- The PR company copy and pastes your resume
- A media company is willing to post a summary of it
- The publication has no other commentary

Bad PR looks like a copy-paste job. It seems random. It leaves the reader wondering, why should I care?

Good PR:
- The PR company is used to working in your industry
- The PR company builds relationships with major media over time
- A journalist reaches out to the PR company about your field
- The PR company puts you in touch with the journalist 
- You give your take as the known expert in the field

Good PR looks organic. It shows that you are a trusted expert. This is what you want for NIW/EB1.

So if you have the means to use a PR agency, pick your PR agency wisely. Ask for examples.

Determine if the agency will give you good PR or bad PR before spending the big bucks!

#immigration #NIW #EB1 #PR

end


Post 85:
Post: 2023-09-26 17:18:18
Post Date: 🎉 US citizenship approved 🎉

Excited for our client who has been a US resident for over 20 years!

❤️🤍💙

end


Post 86:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:18:20
Post Date: LinkedIn can help you get EB1, NIW, or O-1.

How?

- Start posting regularly
- Talk about your field 
- Find a niche to discuss
- Write in easy to understand language
- Engage with people in your field from around the world

What could happen? LinkedIn Benefits.

- Others in your field will start to recognize you as a leader
- You get invited to speak at events/professional conferences
- You get invited to write in a professional journal
- You get featured in a publication
- Worst case: you practice talking about your expertise

What does this have to do with EB1, NIW, or O-1?

- You need to show widespread recognition in your field
- You need experts to write support letters (strangers=good)
- You need evidence of your leadership, like through conference presentations, publications, and media recognition
- You need to explain to an immigration officer in easy to understand language WHY your field is important

Hmm these seem pretty similar to the benefits you get from LinkedIn.

And the BEST PART...

You don't need a ton of followers to get results. I got 3 of these "LinkedIn Benefits" with less than 1,000 followers.

-----

Any other ways LinkedIn can help your immigration case?

#immigration #EB1 #NIW #O1 #LinkedInBenefits

end


Post 87:
Post: 2022-07-23 17:18:21
Post Date: Did you travel over the holidays? Are you back to work getting into the swing of things?

For most of us the answer is yes—though some of us had flights cancelled so our trips home were delayed—my cousins had to rent a car and drive with their two kids from Pennsylvania to Denver and then fly to Seattle just to get home!

Maybe you have unpacked your bag, gone to the grocery store and stocked your fridge and you have ticked everything off your to do list. 

But, if you are a foreign national on a temporary visa in the United States, there is one more item I’d like to add to your post-holiday to do list: check your I-94.

Anyone who is in a temporary status in the United States is likely familiar with the I-94—the record that CBP gives you when you enter the United States to reflect your current status and how long you may remain in the country in that status.

If you are coming back to the United States from a trip abroad, you should check your I-94 on the CBP website to ensure that it is accurate. 

Let’s say you check your I-94 and everything looks good. Great, you can stop there. 

But, what happens if you catch a mistake? Unfortunately, there is no easy way to edit your I-94, so you might be stuck with a CBP mistake, but it’s good to know what mistakes to stress about and what mistakes to let go.

Some mistakes—like your “Class of Admission” being L-1A instead of L-1B or your old passport number being listed—are not super concerning and can typically be left unaddressed.

As a general rule the mistake that you should be the most concerned/aware of is the “Admit Until Date.” You need to know how long CBP admitted you because that is how long you can lawfully remain in the United States. If the I-94 date of admission is shorter than you expected this can be because of a CBP officer mistake or sometimes because your passport is expiring soon. Either way, this is the date that controls how long you can stay in the United States—even if it is incorrect, it is what you MUST follow. 

If you check your I-94, find a mistake, and discover that you have stayed past your “Admit Until Date” DO NOT go to CBP to try to get it corrected!!! I repeat, DO NOT go to CBP to try to get it corrected. You could be removed (aka deported) if you show up in this circumstance—even if CBP was the one who made the mistake! If you end up in this situation it can be critical to talk to an immigration attorney to determine the best path to get back into status before taking any other steps on your own.

If you check your I-94 and find a mistake on the “Admit Until Date” but you are still within that date, then you can consider going to the CBP office to see if they will correct it, but it’s possible they may be unwilling to change it. If that is the case, the next time you travel abroad CBP will issue you a new I-94, which you will check again and see if it has the correct “Admit Until Date.” 


Any other useful I-94 dos and don’ts to add to the “review I-94” to do list?

end


Post 88:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:18:23
Post Date: 🎉 Green card approved 🎉

This one feels extra sweet.

Why?

It's for one of my best friends.

Jordan Kopstein

Her journey is a familiar one. 15 years of nonimmigrant status to now a more permanent status in the US—the entire time, contributing to this country. 

She is a boss Art Director, climbing the ranks of Marie Claire, Michael Kors, and now David Yurman.

We met at Scripps College and she is one of my closest friends. 

Congrats Jordan! 

#immigration #greencard #greencardapproval

end


Post 89:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:18:27
Post Date: 3 expert support letter hacks 
(for O1, EB1A, or NIW).

If you are drafting an expert support letter for an immigration case the work can seem daunting. 

Here are 3 ways to make it easier:

1️⃣ Use ChatGPT to get ideas

Use prompts like "explain in nontechnical terms [insert your field of expertise]" or "explain why [insert specific tool/field/project you've done] is critical to the U.S. national interest." 

Be sure to review and MAKE EDITS. ChatGPT is a great way to start/get ideas flowing, but it should not be your end product. 

2️⃣ Use LinkedIn PDF resumes 

If it's too hard to track down resumes/CVs from experts, then you can use LinkedIn resume printouts instead.

Did you know that you can download a pretty PDF version of someone's LinkedIn profile that looks like a resume? Go to the person's profile, select the "More" button then select "Save to PDF" and you'll get a nice-looking resume to download. 

3️⃣ Use the Draw Tool in Word for signatures

Scanned original signatures are ideal for USCIS (and are required on the forms and certain support docs). But if it's not possible for an expert support letter (who has a printer these days anyway?), we've had success with USCIS accepting expert letters that are signed with the Draw Tool in Word.  

Go to the "Draw" tab at the top of Word and select the pen, then sign on the signature line with your mouse.

---

...Ok, now you can go back to you know being an expert in your field and doing things in the national interest rather than stressing about support letters.

#immigration #EB1 #NIW #hacks 

end


Post 90:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:18:29
Post Date: #1 Secret about the O-1 visa.

It's easier than EB-1A.

---

On paper, the O-1 and EB-1A are nearly identical.

But in practice the O-1 is much easier to get. 

So if you don't think your profile is ready for EB-1A, don't let that stop you.

But...and this is a big BUT...

You need a U.S. job offer for the O-1. Unlike the EB-1A.  

You cannot sponsor yourself. 

But you can get creative if you are a founder.  You can set up your business in a way to make the O-1 work.

So it may be worth trying out the O-1.

---

Any other O-1 secrets you would add?

end


Post 91:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:18:33
Post Date: Pros & cons of NIW

Pros:
✅ No sponsor needed
✅ You are in control
✅ Not stuck with your employer's timeline
✅ No PERM/prevailing wage
✅ Easier to change jobs
✅ You can choose your lawyer
✅ You can build your profile to qualify

Cons:
❌ Can take time to build your profile
❌ Education requirement
❌ Not an immediate path to a green card
❌ Puts you in the EB2 green card line
❌ You can't just wait in the US while it's pending 
❌ You need to maintain some other status
❌ Your employer probably won't pay for it

end


Post 92:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:18:35
Post Date: 1 thing every startup should know about immigration:

➡️The ownership/voting/board structure of a company can impact a founder’s immigration status. 

——

For some visas, you want the founder to have more than 50% of ownership. For other visas, you want the founder’s ownership to be less than 50%.  

So if you have an immigrant founder (or early team member), you want to  consider immigration options the moment you are drafting your articles of incorporation.

You can always restructure your business later, but you’ll save time and money if immigration was already a part of the equation.

#immigration #businessimmigration #startups

end


Post 93:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:18:37
Post Date: Can you travel on your O-1 while your adjustment of status is pending?

❌😱 Google gets this answer wrong 😱❌

Google says, sure go ahead and travel.  But...please DON'T.

Why not?

Grey area in the law.

Huh? 

It's not clear whether an O-1 is "dual intent." 

I still don't get it?

A dual intent visa allows you to be in the US on a temporary visa, but also show that you intend to remain in the US permanently (by filing for adjustment of status).  

If you have a temporary visa without dual intent, the US government says: 

Hey, wait a minute, you said you wanted to stay in the US temporarily, now you are trying to stay here permanently.  These things are inconsistent. So, we can't let you back into the country on your temporary visa.

Then you are stuck outside the US & you abandoned your adjustment of status application.

So, what's the issue with the O-1?

The US Department of State says the O-1 is dual intent.  

Ok great, then why can't I travel?

Because USCIS hasn't said one way or the other that the O-1 is dual intent. And USCIS is the one deciding your adjustment of status application.

So to be safe, don't travel abroad on your O-1.  Wait until you get your Advance Parole.

#immigration #O1 #adjustmentofstatus

end


Post 94:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:18:41
Post Date: What would you do for work if you didn't have to worry about:

-Money
-Immigration status

I'll go first...

I would do the same job.
I would be an immigration attorney. 
I would just select a few complex cases. 

This way I could be challenged, provide top-of-the-line client service and never feel overwhelmed (ok maybe not never...it's still immigration we are talking about).

When I shared this answer with my legal assistant, who originally posed the question, he said...

 "How amazing! You are living your dream."

Sadly, I never thought about it that way.

It's easy to get caught up in the competing deadlines, ever-changing laws, 
incorrectly rejected applications, emotional stress of your clients having to upend their lives because of a lottery or layoff, and frustrations of dismissed cases the day before trial after you've already prepped the client and written the brief.

It was a great wake-up call.

I am fortunate to be living my dream...and of course not to have to worry about my own immigration status.

---

Ok, your turn.

With no money or immigration worries...

What would you do?

end


Post 95:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:18:43
Post Date: 3 ways to be a judge. 

And not the kind in a court.

I mean a judge for EB1A & O1.

You can:

1️⃣ Peer review articles. 

This is the one everyone knows. But it’s not the only way.

2️⃣ Judge an industry competition.

Accelerator competition? Hackathon? Startup pitch event? See if you can serve as an expert judge.

3️⃣ Choose conference speakers/presentations.

Conferences always need volunteers. So see if you can volunteer your expert advice to choose speakers and any conference awards. 

——

Any others you would add?

#immigration #EB1 #o1visa

end


Post 96:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:18:48
Post Date: If I asked you to give me a copy of your birth certificate, do you think you could do it?
 
I'm sure you are thinking, yes, obviously. 
 
But think again, because this question is not easy as you think. Especially in the world of immigration.
 
A birth certificate can be called a "birth abstract," "birth record," "Acta de Nacimiento," "l’Acte de Naissance," and many more names. There are short forms, long forms, and commemorative copies.
 
So how do you know which one is correct?
 
The answer: the Visa Reciprocity Schedule. https://lnkd.in/gnXbX8Mp

If you were born outside the US, you have to check this very confusing website to make sure you are providing the correct birth certificate for your immigration case. 

Leave it to immigration to take something simple and make it complex.

end


Post 97:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:18:51
Post Date: Do you want to sponsor yourself for a green card?

Are you sick of hearing "your case is not NIW ready yet"?

Do you like practical tips?

If so, this webinar is for you.

Join us next week to learn how you can start building your NIW profile immediately.

https://lnkd.in/gBvX7BSp

end


Post 98:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:18:56
Post Date: What’s the story behind the EB1 India retrogression? 
10 years?!?! 

Doesn’t it seem a bit extreme?

Yes & no,

Yes, because... 

Last month you could apply for EB1 if you had a priority date in 2022. And this month it went backwards 10 years.

No, because...

It won't actually be a 10-year retrogression. The 2012 date is basically a placeholder until October. The government is saying we've reached the amount of EB1s we can give out for India this year.

The government resets green card numbers in October. 

So you can expect the dates to be more like the July Visa Bulletin for EB1 starting in October.

Key takeaways:
• The August Visa Bulletin for EB1 India is not as bad as it looks. 
• It still makes sense for Indian nationals to pursue EB1.

Thank you Sindhu Mahadevan for the great question/inspiration for the post.

end


Post 99:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:19:00
Post Date: Facing a layoff? Scared about your immigration status?

Here's a place to look for jobs...

📚️ Colleges & universities 📚️

They are often willing to sponsor immigrant employees. 

Colleges & universities get special treatment by U.S. immigration (for example, they aren't subject to the H-1B cap).

And it's not just for professors.

Colleges & universities hire:
- Software engineers
- Operations specialists
- Marketing officers
- Product managers
- Accounting coordinators
- Data scientists

So if you are in the tech industry facing layoffs and a bleak job market, take a look at job openings at colleges & universities.

#layoffs #immigration #higheredjobs

end


Post 100:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:19:06
Post Date: 5 words/phrases to NEVER use in your immigration application.

And what you can use instead.

---

❌ Telemetry
✔️ Data collection

❌ B2B
✔️ Business services/sales

❌ Evangelize
✔️ Drive [insert name of product] adoption

❌ Enterprise
✔️ Businesses and organizations

❌ Digital transformation
✔️ Drive [insert name of new technology] adoption

---

Ok, "never" might be too strong.

But the point is, you want to avoid business jargon as much as possible.  

If your job title has one of these terms in it, you will obviously need to include it. And I've seen a lot of job titles with these terms.

I get it...these are common terms in corporate America. So why can't you use them in immigration applications?

Because most immigration officers do not have a background in business or tech. So they probably won't know what you mean.

And what happens when immigration officers don't know what you mean?

RFEs & denials.

So next time you describe your job for immigration, ask yourself, would my grandma understand this?

If not, choose a different word.

end


Post 101:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:19:08
Post Date: Sick of being a victim to the U.S. immigration system? 

Want to take control over your U.S. immigration process?

Join 130+ people for our NIW webinar tomorrow!

We will be talking about practical steps you can take RIGHT NOW to build your NIW profile.

Bring your questions, bring your friends, bring your curiosity. 

Gianfranco De Girolamo, Esq. and I can't wait to meet you all. 💃🕺 

end


Post 102:
Post: 2024-01-24 17:19:10
Post Date: 🎉 J1 Waiver Approved 🎉

In 6 months!

Our client is from Kazakhstan.

And now he doesn't have to worry about returning/staying there for 2 years.

Although J1 waivers don't get you any status in the US, they make it easier to pursue other options like an H-1B or green card.

If you have the 2-year home residencey requirement it doesn't mean you always have to satisfy it.

J1 waivers can be a great option to give you more flexibility.

end


Post 103:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:19:15
Post Date: Watch out for this O-1 visa Catch 22.

If you want to sponsor yourself for an O-1, you can't.

But you might be able to use an agent instead.

This can work well for actors, artists, athletes, or other freelance-type positions.

However, if you use an agent then you'll run into…

The O-1 Catch 22.

USCIS requires that you show a detailed itinerary of the work you will be doing for the next 3 years (if you want it to be approved for the max amount of time).

You must show contracts for specific projects you will be working on.

Your work cannot be speculative.

The problem is that most clients/businesses don't want to commit to working with you unless you can secure a visa.

So then you are stuck in a loop...

Unable to obtain the contracts that you need to secure the visa.

Stuck in a frustrating Catch 22 of business realities vs. immigration laws.

It's not impossible to get out of, but it can be a challenge.

#immigration #O1 #O1agent 

end


Post 104:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:19:18
Post Date: One GOOD thing about getting laid off by your H-1B employer.

You probably don't have to repeat the lottery.

🤔 What does this mean?

If you are on an H-1B, getting laid off is SCARY. Your visa status in the U.S. is tied to your employer. So now you have to frantically look for a new job.

↗️ Let's say you don't find one.  And you have to leave the U.S.
↙️ Let's say you are outside the U.S. for many years.
↗️ But then you find your dream job and you want to come back.

GOOD NEWS.  Your new employer likely won't need to go through the H-1B lottery for you to get your visa.

If you already went through the H-1B lottery (aka you were cap-subject), then you likely don't have to deal with the lottery again. As long as you were in your previous H-1B job for less than 6 years, you can use the rest of that time up in a new H-1B.  Even if it's for a job months, years, or decades later.

➡️So while getting laid off does not feel good, remind yourself that you are a lottery winner.  Maybe that will help?

#immigration #H1B #layoffs

end


Post 105:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:19:20
Post Date: 3rd most common H-1B layoff question answered.

Can I change my status to B-2?

Answer: Maybe, but be aware of BIG RISKS.

---

If you try to change to B-2 to stay in the US and hunt for H-1B jobs past your grace period...

You could face major immigration problems in the future.

To get a B-2 visa you need to show that you only intend to remain in the US temporarily to be a tourist. 

But if that's not really your plan (and maybe you've renewed your H-1B for MANY years waiting for your priority date to become current), it's going to be hard to convince immigration you only want to be in the US temporarily.

So immigration could deny your case, or worse, deny a different visa in the future.

B-2 can work for some H-1Bs (maybe if you just started your first H-1B in October 2022 and you want to do some touristy things before you depart the US). 

But BE AWARE. 

It's not a magic solution to extend your H-1B grace period.

#usimmigration #H1B #H1Blayoffs #techlayoffs #india #china

end


Post 106:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:19:22
Post Date: Why Data Scientists are at an advantage for EB1 & NIW.

📊 You can track metrics
📊 You can simplify complex data
📈 You can explain the impact of raw data
📈 You can show trends
📢 You can communicate your findings clearly to others

You probably don't use these skills on yourself. 

But you SHOULD.

♥️ U.S. immigration loves to see metrics ♥️

You can (and you SHOULD) use data to show your influence on your field. If you do, you will put yourself in a strong position for an EB1 or NIW.

#immigration #datascientist #NIW #EB1

end


Post 107:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:19:23
Post Date: Follow Friday. Is that still a thing?

Top 5 immigrants you should be following.

1) Aditi Paul, PhD 🟢

EB-1 winner. Expert researcher. Queen of practical EB-1 tips. She's been there, she knows the road, she gets it. She wants to help. If you're not an  Aditi fan girl yet, you will be soon.

2) Praneet Chaturvedi

Another EB-1 winner who is here to help! He's a bioinformatics genius and EB-1 coach. His Youtube videos are straightforward and give you clear action items. He asks all the right questions (so you don't have to).

3) Daniela (Dani) Herrera

Laid off? Scared about your immigration status? Wish US companies were more diverse, equitable, and inclusive? Come to Dani's profile for the brave layoff stories, stay for the brilliant DEI wisdom. I honestly look forward to reading Dani's posts every morning.

4) Varun Negandhi

He talks about all things immigrant from how to secure a job in the US to how to get better performance reviews, as well as ways to navigate the immigration system. He's got practical tips through every step of the way...if you're sensing a theme you are right (I love practical tips).

5) Gianfranco De Girolamo

He's an immigration lawyer and an immigrant himself. He created a law firm that he wished he had when he was going through his US immigration journey. He is all about using technology to make our lives easier/better.  (He is technically my boss, but he will hate me for saying that)

If you need some inspo these immigrants will not disappoint!!

#immigration #immigrants #followfriday 

end


Post 108:
Post: 2024-05-23 17:19:25
Post Date: I'm headed out on maternity leave today.

I felt so anxious to tell my clients this.
I felt so anxious to tell LinkedIn this.

I felt like I was letting you all down, by leaving.

...I realize that's a bit self-important.

But every client & direct message I've received after telling people has been amazing/supportive.

So many well wishes and ALL CAPS emails of excitement.

And yesterday it culminated in the sweetest gift from a client.

I teared up.

So thank you all who have wished me well, it's meant a lot.

---

I will miss you all while I am out!

I am not sure what my LinkedIn game will look like during maternity leave.

I will probably repost some content, in hopes that it is still useful to you.

I will also point you to my colleague Arianna Efstathiou who I am thrilled to have on the DGO Legal - De Girolamo Oyhanarte LLP team. She is a great employment-based immigration attorney with expertise in NIW & EB1. 

If you have any questions while I am out, please don't hesitate to book with her!

end


Post 109:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:19:27
Post Date: Pros & Cons of the O-1 

Pros:
✅ No lottery 
✅ Fast processing (premium processing)
✅ No max out date (can keep renewing)
✅ Within your control (you can build your profile)

Cons:
❌Takes time to build a case
❌Higher standard (compared to H-1B)
❌Requires employer sponsor
❌Spouse can't work (on O-2)

---

The O-1 can be a great option if you weren't selected for the H-1B lottery. 

For most people, the pros usually outweigh the cons.

#immigration #O1 #prosandcons

end


Post 110:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:19:29
Post Date: What I learned from a 40+ L-1 visa approvals. All at consulates (including the infamous Chennai, India).

🚮 Ditch the elevator pitch. You might be tempted to memorize a script about your job. But this will hurt you rather than help. You need to be able to have a fluid conversation about your position—not sound scripted. 

🚫Do not be alarmed if the consular officer does not read your application materials. It’s up to you to explain your job so that the officer can determine if it qualifies for an L-1. 

🗣 Speak in non-technical terms. Pretend you are explaining your job to your grandma. 

🧰 Focus on the internal tools you use to perform your job duties. Tools that people outside your company don’t know. For example, internal software systems that ONLY your company uses.

Any other tips you would add?

#immigration #L1 #consularinterview

end


Post 111:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:19:31
Post Date: Stuck in administrative processing?! 😩
 
Here's a way to get UNSTUCK.
 
Sue the Department of State.
 
Force the consulate to take action on your case.
 
This sounds scary. Will the U.S. government seek revenge on you? Will the consulate make things worse?
 
Luckily, no. The U.S. government does not seek revenge on people who sue.
 
Instead, you get a federal court to put pressure on the U.S. government to take action on your case.
 
And it WORKS.
 
Elizabeth (Liz) Goss, Esq., Adrianna Romero, and I just won a case that was stalled in admin processing for nearly a year.

We submitted our complaint to the US Attorney. And...

Just FOUR WEEKS later we received an approval! 
 
Admin processing can be so frustrating. But here is a tool that can help.
 
#immigration #administrativeprocessing #federallitigation

end


Post 112:
Post: 2024-02-23 17:19:32
Post Date: What does it mean when USCIS is "actively reviewing" your case?

Almost nothing.

It could still mean you will be waiting months or even years.

It could still mean you get an RFE.

I've had a green card renewal case in the "actively reviewing" stage since 2022.

Two years of active review.

I imagine that it means that your case has been assigned to a specific officer.

So it's in the officer's pile of cases to review.

But...

We have no idea how big that pile is.

So even though it's exciting to see your case status change online...

From "receipt received" to "actively reviewing," this doesn't tell you much about your case.

There's no normal amount of time for something to be "actively reviewed."

So sadly, we can't get too excited about it.

end


Post 113:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:19:36
Post Date: Productive day in Congress!!

We are making your immigrant stories front and center. 

Thank you to everyone who shared your stories. You came through in a BIG away.

I am still working through all of your stories. 

I am in awe of all of you who took the time to share.

I plan to organize them and send them to our government officials. 

Your stories matter and can make change. 

👊🏻🇺🇸


Karol Brown 
Erin Zipfel 
Mercedes Riggs

end


Post 114:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:19:37
Post Date: 2nd most asked H-1B layoff question answered.

If I must leave the US after my grace period, do I have to go through the H-1B lottery again?

Short answer: No

---

If you have not used your max 6 years in H-1B, you can come back into the US with a new H-1B without going through the H-1B lottery again. 

And if you already maxed out your 6 years in H-1B, but you've been renewing your H-1B based on your approved I-140 (with a priority date that is not current yet), you can also come back in on H-1B without going through the lottery again.

#usimmigration #H1B #H1Blayoffs #techlayoffs #india #china

end


Post 115:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:19:39
Post Date: Layoffs are stressful enough. 
Losing your immigration status on top of that is brutal.    

What can you do?

Join us next week to get some answers.  We will be talking all about how H1Bs can try to stay in status after a layoff.  And the event is free!

Thank you Abhishek Gutgutia for organizing this important event.

end


Post 116:
Post: 2024-02-23 17:19:41
Post Date: 🎉 H-1B Approval 🎉

...in 8 days.

---

Excited to play a small part in this startup's journey.

Can't wait to see what's next for them!

end


Post 117:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:19:43
Post Date: How to define your field for NIW/EB1A.

Ask yourself these questions.

- What am I the expert in?
- What do other people in my industry look to me for advice on?
- What is the one common thread in all my prior work experience?
- How would I explain what I do to my grandma?
- What is my personal brand?
- How can I make my broad field (like software engineering) narrow enough so that I am the leader in that field, not 1 million other people?

If you nail down your field you've already done one of the most important things you can for your NIW/EB1A case.

#usimmigration #EB1 #NIW #defineyourfield #personalbranding

end


Post 118:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:19:45
Post Date: Is it OOO or OOF? 

Out Of Office or Out of OFfice?

I have a theory. 

It can be either.

It’s OOO (ooooo) if you can actually enjoy your vacation from work.

It’s OOF (ooooof) if you are too stressed before and after your vacation to enjoy it. 

I’ve been both OOO and OOF. 

I’ve spent time on a beach in Fiji feeling OOF. Fake reading my beach read while I obsess about an RFE.

But this week I’m OOO. Taking in Zion with my family. Feeling calm and supported by my colleagues. 

—-

What are you taking this Thanksgiving week? OOO or OOF?

#OOO #OOF #vacaymode 

end


Post 119:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:19:48
Post Date: Are you in the process of getting your EB2 or EB3 green card (through PERM)? 
 
If so, watch out for the new PERM form.
 
Why?
 
The Department of Labor (DOL) is launching a new online PERM form in June.
 
Even though the law has not changed, the form's questions are different. Significantly different.
 
And PERM is the least flexible immigration form.
 
A tiny typo can lead to a denial (after 1-2 years in the process).
 
Things that were acceptable on the past PERM form may be rejected by DOL.
 
Employers and law firms have used many years of experience with the current PERM form to figure out the magic language to avoid a denial.
 
Now all this institutional knowledge is going away.
 
We don't get to try it out and see what will work.

We don't get to send test cases.
 
It's like launching a product without a single prototype. 
 
We have to launch our cases (that directly impact your lives!!) out into the world using the new system and hope they work.
 
So be prepared, the launch is unlikely to go smoothly. There will be denials. There will be hard lessons. 

Are you scared yet? I am too.
 
What can you do?

Maybe it's time to think about NIW or EB1 to protect yourself from this PERM doom and gloom?

#immigration #PERM #NIW #EB1

end


Post 120:
Post: 2024-02-23 17:19:52
Post Date: I'm on a visa, can I volunteer?

Yes & no.

...Everyone's favorite answer.

If you're on a visa like an H-1B or even a nonwork visa like a B2, you might want to volunteer in the US while you are here.

Is the volunteering you want to do OK?

YES if...

• The position is normally a volunteer position.
• The position is not typically a paid position

NO if...

• The position would normally be paid 
• The work is not normally done by a volunteer

---

So let's say you are on an H4 and you are not eligible for an EAD yet. You have a degree in landscape architecture. You'd like to volunteer at a landscape architecture firm while you are in the US.

Is this allowed?

No, probably not.

Why?

Because you would be doing work that would normally be done by a paid landscape architect.

But if you want to volunteer at a plant conservatory where there are normally unpaid docents...

Is this allowed?

Yes.

---

Volunteering can seem harmless/helpful...but even that can cause immigration issues 😩

end


Post 121:
Post: 2023-12-25 17:19:54
Post Date: Want to sponsor yourself for an H-1B
...But heard you can't?

In 2024 this could change.

And NOW is a good time to take advantage of it.

The H-1B lottery registration will be in March 2024. 

If you want to include yourself in the H-1B lottery for this upcoming year then you need to have your company set up before the registration period.

The new proposed rule would allow a company to sponsor a founder even if the founder has majority ownership over the company.

There will be some restrictions.

For example, the H-1B will initially be approved for only 18 months (instead of 3 years).

And we don't know for sure if this rule will go forward.

But if it does, and you don't plan ahead, you might miss the upcoming H-1B lottery registration.

So if you've ever thought about founding a company and using the company to sponsor yourself for an H-1B, this is a good time to start!

end


Post 122:
Post: 2023-08-27 17:19:56
Post Date: What no one told you about getting a green card through your employer (aka PERM).

• It takes FOREVER
  
• The current PERM process is taking around 1.5-2yrs
  
• Going through the process does not guarantee a green card
  
• It's not about YOU
  
• It's your employer's application
  
• Even though it will impact your life, your employer gets to control the process
  
• You might not even be able to talk to your employer's immigration attorney about it
  
• The law requires that you are completely left out of certain parts of the process (like the recruitment)
  
• You can travel internationally while the entire process pending (even once the PERM is filed and even once the I-140 is filed)
  
• Even if you are not on a dual-intent visa
  
• The first step in the process (getting the US gov to tell you what wage you must be paid) takes 7-9 months
  
• The PERM process is usually successful for the immigrant employee, but...
  
• There is very little room for error in PERM
  
• A tiny typo can blow up the entire application
  
• Unlike other immigration applications where a typo can be fixed, in PERM it usually cannot
  
• Immigration attorneys are human, as much as we want to believe we are perfectionist robots, we are not immune from typos (this is what keeps me up at night)
  
• Many law firms are old-fashioned and don't use technology to automate tasks (leaving more room for human error)
  
• Even law firms that serve major tech companies
  
• PERM tasks can be difficult to automate to reduce human error
  
• Every state has different advertising requirements, different online platforms where we must post ads, and different details required
  
• So even when we want to automate, it can be difficult to remove the human element entirely
  
• The purpose of PERM is to determine if there are any minimally qualified US workers for your role
  
• The recruitment will be different than it was for your role originally
  
• The advertising requirements are old-fashioned (ads will be in newspapers, as required by law)
  
• If someone applies who is qualified for the position then that PERM process is over
  
• But your employer does not have to hire that person
  
• Your employer can restart the PERM process if the first one doesn't work
  
• Even if/when your PERM is certified, you still have several steps until you get your green card
  
• You won't be able to apply for your green card right away
  
• You will probably have to wait in a green card line

PERM is a bumpy, long, and curvy road. 

You will feel out of control. 

But if you hold on tight it can often lead to a green card.

end


Post 123:
Post: 2023-08-27 17:20:02
Post Date: I usually hate a 6am work email on the weekend. But not today.

Because it means my client was selected for the 2nd H-1B lottery!

end


Post 124:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:20:04
Post Date: I only learned 1 thing from the bar exam.  

😱 And it wasn't how to be a good lawyer. 😱

So what was it?

How to speak/write before I feel ready.

The bar exam forced me to just START.

I could never master all 10 topics. I could prepare. But the bar exam would (and did) test me on things I didn't know.

I remember feeling so uncomfortable on my practice tests. Spitting out what I felt was B.S. 😬😬😬

I hated it.

I wanted to study more, research more, know more. 

But I couldn't.  

I had to just write.

I started to exercise the muscle. One I never used before.

I got stronger. 

And now it's a skill I ACTUALLY USE as a lawyer (unlike all those other fun bar exam skills like hearsay rules, modern per stirpes, and contract consideration).

Of course I want to be prepared for my clients. And not to B.S. my way through life.

But it's not practical to research something for 1000s of hours until I feel like there is NO RISK. Or to rewrite an email or brief a billion times until it's a polished gem.

So I have to speak/write before I am ready.

And thanks to the bar exam, now I can.

#lawyer #attorney #barexam  

end


Post 125:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:20:07
Post Date: What would happen if your spouse couldn't work anymore?

People on work visas in the U.S. have to answer this question all the time. 

Because not all visas allow spouses to work too.  

So, which visas allow your spouse to work? 

✅L-1: Spouse CAN work
✅E-1/2/3: Spouse CAN work
✅Green card (EB1/EB2/EB3): Spouse CAN work

❌O-1: Spouse CANNOT work
❌TN: Spouse CANNOT work

🤷🏻 H-1B: Spouse CANNOT work right away.  You must be in the green card process before your spouse can get a work permit.


#immigration #workvisa #spouseworkpermit

end


Post 126:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:20:09
Post Date: 🎉 US Citizenship Approved 🎉

And it was FAST. 

Just 4 months from filing to approval.

Congrats to our client Georges Krinker. 

The US is a better place with you as a citizen! 

💙🤍❤️💙🤍❤️

#usimmigration #uscitizen #naturalization

end


Post 127:
Post: 2022-07-23 17:20:11
Post Date: Honoured to have worked as a principal researcher on this report during my time at the Castan Centre for Human Rights Law.

Following the recent Taliban takeover, women and girls in Afghanistan are experiencing the rapid erosion of their freedoms and violation of their fundamental rights. We advocate for greater recognition of the particular protection needs of this vulnerable group.

We hope that this report provides an evidence-based agenda to encourage the development of effective, gender-sensitive and lasting refugee policy in Australia.

An enormous thank you to Andrea Olivares Jones and Maria O'Sullivan for your mentorship, and additionally to my colleagues Martice Cane, Hadi Zaher and Scott Walker.

end


Post 128:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:20:20
Post Date: 😱 H-1B lottery selections are COMPLETE 😱 

USCIS has notified everyone who was selected.

---

If you were selected, you case status will say "selected."

If you were not selected, your case status will say "submitted."

---

What happens now?

People selected apply for their H-1Bs.

If less people actually apply or are not eligible for the H-1Bs selected then USCIS could open up the lottery selection process again.

So if you are already registered it's possible you could selected for the lottery in the future.

But this is unlikely given the high demand for H-1Bs.

#immigration #USCIS #H1B #h1blottery 

end


Post 129:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:20:26
Post Date: "You need to learn to delegate."

I bet you can't guess who said this to me.

My boss? Legal assistant? Paralegal? Therapist? LinkedIn guru?

No.

It was my husband.

And he wasn't talking about work.

He was talking about packing. 

Packing for our family for vacation.

He said this to me after I spent 4 hours packing my 1.5yr old son's clothes, diapers, wipes, sound machine, sleep sac, snot sucker, car seat, baby carrier, stroller, snacks, toys, etc., etc., etc. 

He said, you need to learn to delegate to me.

I said, I don't know how! 

But I do know how. 

I do it at work all the time. I train staff, I make checklists, I create SOPs.

But I never thought about doing it at home.

I didn't want to give up control. I wanted the items packed in my particular way.

But I also don't want to stay up late packing by myself before every trip.

So I need to learn to delegate. 

Even though I don't know where to start.

Even when it feels like it's not possible.

...I'll report back on how the at-home SOPs go.

#workingparent #workingmom #delegating 

end


Post 130:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:20:28
Post Date: 🛑 Why being related to a U.S. citizen can be a BAD thing. 🛑

Most of the time being related to a U.S. citizen is a good thing for immigration.  But here is one exception...

PERM.

If you are related to the business owner who is sponsoring you, this could cause problems.

The US government wants to make sure that the business has a real job offer available to US workers. But they think that if you're related to the business owner, then you are the only candidate they really had in mind for the position.

So what does this mean for your PERM case? The business will have to disclose the family relationship (no matter how distant!). And you should expect an audit, which will delay your PERM.

It's hard to predict whether the family relationship will lead to a denial.  Luckily, I have heard of success stories for family relationship PERMs (after an audit).

But that doesn't change the headache that you will face just because you are related...family (PERM) drama.

#immigration #businessimmigration #PERM

end


Post 131:
Post: 2024-01-24 17:20:30
Post Date: Yes, the President's AI Executive Order mentioned immigration.

No, working in AI doesn't mean your EB-1A just got a whole lot easier.

You still have to meet the WHY YOU test...
WHY should immigration give this green card to YOU?

WHY YOU compared to all other AI professionals?

What have you done to change the field of AI?
What have you done outside of your company?

What kind of recognition have YOU received (not your company or the product you worked on)?

Think of the Executive Order as a little extra plus at the end of your application.

If you are on the edge, then maybe it will bump you up.

But if you aren't extremely close, it won't get you there.

EB-1A is still really hard.

The AI Executive Order doesn't change that.

end


Post 132:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:20:34
Post Date: Do you have an H-1B lottery contingency plan?

I bet less than 20% of people will get selected.

So what happens if you are in the other 80%?

You probably want a contingency plan to stay in the US.

Good news, here's an option...

Think about the O-1 visa.

Even though it sounds scary (you have to show you are extraordinary?!), in practice it is not as hard as it sounds (it's easier than the EB-1A).

And you can start doing things right now to build your profile.

This way if you end up without an H-1B, and at the end of your OPT, you have an option.

#h1bvisa #h1blottery #o1 

end


Post 133:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:20:36
Post Date: 📍 Quick tip for EB1A & NIW 📍 

Set up a Google Scholar profile page.

If you have any academic publications or patents, make sure they are listed on your Google Scholar page.  Once you set up your profile, regularly review it to make sure it is accurate.

Google Scholar gives you fancy graphs that track your citation record over time.  

You will immediately look more official in the eyes of USCIS.

USCIS loves to look at Google Scholar pages to track your publications/patents/citations/influence in the field.  

So if you are considering applying for EB1A or NIW in the future, Google Scholar is an easy place to start.

#immigration #EB1 #NIW #GoogleScholar

end


Post 134:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:20:39
Post Date: The early bird gets the worm 

...or the H-1B registration 🥴

If you haven't already registered for the H-1B (deadline: tomorrow!), beware! 

You might not be able to pay the $10 registration fee.

And you must pay to register.

So you could be left out of the lottery.

Yikes!

Here's hoping that you (or your employer) didn't leave your H-1B to the last minute!

...though I am sure at least one of you out there who already registered with plenty of time is hoping for exactly that. Ohhhh no. So sad. Less H-1B registrants because some can't pay.

Ok but no really, I am not hoping that for anyone, that is very unfair.

Happy H-1B season 🙃 

#immigration #H1B #H1Blottery

end


Post 135:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:20:42
Post Date: Personal branding. It's all the rage on LinkedIn.

Personal branding. For your immigration case? YES.

Hop on the bandwagon. 

Because personal branding will help your immigration case.

If you want an EB1, NIW, or O1, you need a personal brand.

Why?

Because you will need to show how YOU are a leader in your field.

If you have a vibrant personal brand, it will be easy for you to explain your impact.

You will be a pro at explaining what you do and why it delivers value.

This is what immigration officers want to hear.

And you can get started on your personal brand RIGHT NOW.

LinkedIn has tons of people creating useful content about how to grow your personal brand. 

Just start scrolling (and then applying the wisdom you find).

#personalbranding #immigration #greencard

end


Post 136:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:20:43
Post Date: What I learned from filing 100+ PERMs.

✈️You have to be as accurate as an air traffic controller

SO...

📋️ Use a checklist every time

BUT... 

If you do it right...

🎉 Almost all (~95-98%) result in approval

This is why I have a hate-love relationship with PERM.

#immigration #greencard #PERM

end


Post 137:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:20:47
Post Date: Can PERM work for small businesses? 

Yes, PERM works for small businesses/startups. 

It's not just for big tech companies.

---

PERM is a great tool for small businesses to sponsor employees for green cards.

But you'll want to keep in mind:

🕗️ PERM takes a LONG time, so start early

💲 The company's finances must show the business can afford to pay the employee's wage

👪️ If there is a family relationship between the company and the employee your case will be harder

💼 The company will have to play an active role in the PERM process

🏃🏻♂️ If the PERM and green card are approved, the employee does not have to stay working at the small business.

---

For a deep(ish) dive into the topic check out my recent article in the Immigration Lawyers Toolbox® Magazine.

#immigration #smallbusiness #greencard #PERM

end


Post 138:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:20:50
Post Date: Should I do EB-1A or NIW? Or both?

NIW will not get you in a faster green card line. EB-1A will.

But that doesn’t mean you should only focus on EB-1A.

NIW has its benefits too.
NIW is easier to get than EB-1A.
NIW is faster than the long PERM process.
NIW is not tied to your employer.
NIW allows you to retain your priority date for your EB-1A case.
NIW can help you show USCIS that you are EB-1A eligible.

Here’s the but…

If you pursue NIW and then EB-1A you’ll have to spend time, energy, and money on each application. 

That’s a big but. Not everyone can afford to do both. 

But it’s useful to know the benefits of the NIW.

It’s ultimately up to you to determine if these benefits are worth the long journey and cost of NIW to EB-1A.

end


Post 139:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:20:52
Post Date: 😱 Yikes, you just lost your green card. You are outside the US. How do you get back in?!

🤔 Do you file an “Application to Replace your Green Card” (I-90)? My gut says yes. But it’s immigration…

So of course my gut is wrong.

Instead, you apply for a Boarding Foil. 

A Boarding Foil is just a fancy stamp in your passport that you can use to travel back to the US.

Most consulates issue Boarding Foils within a week. 

👍🏼 So not to worry, hopefully you’ll be back in the US in a flash! 

#immigration #greencard #boardingfoil

end


Post 140:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:20:55
Post Date: Can you start a business on an H4 visa?

Yes, but...

You must have your H4 EAD.

The H4 EAD is flexible. It's not tied to a specific employer. 

You can work for pretty much anyone, including yourself.

So don't let your H4 EAD stop you from starting your venture!

#immigration #startups #H4

end


Post 141:
Post: 2024-04-23 17:21:09
Post Date: What happens if I change jobs after my employer sponsored my I-140?

Am I stuck? 
Do I get to keep my priority date?
Will have to start all over again?

If you go through the long PERM process and get all the way to an approved I-140, you might be wondering, what happens if I leave my job?

Do I get to keep my I-140?

Or was it all a waste?

The good news:
• You get to keep your priority date
• You can extend your H-1B over 6yrs

The bad news:
• You can't use the old job/I-140 for a green card
• You need a new I-140

So you don't have to compeltely start over, because you have secured a priority date (the place in line to get your green card).

But...if your priority date becomes current (aka you get to the front of the green card line), you can't get your green card based on your old I-140, because that job is no longer what you will be doing in the US.

You will need your new employer to go through the PERM/I-140 process for you.

OR...

You will need a self-petitioned I-140, like an NIW or EB-1 that will allow you to take your I-140 wherever you go.

This is one of the main benefits of the NIW.

It doesn't get you in a faster green card line.

But, it saves you the stress of feeling tied to your employer.

NIW is a great tool for job flexibility.

It allows you to say goodbye to the continual PERM stress with each job change.

end


Post 142:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:21:15
Post Date: 5 things you can do RIGHT NOW to increase your chances for an EB1 green card.

1️⃣ Define your field (what are you the EXPERT in?) 
2️⃣ Start producing content about your field on social media
3️⃣ Create a Google Scholar profile 
4️⃣ Join a professional association in your field
5️⃣ Email a leader of the professional association to see if you can help with the next conference

Even if you do just 1 thing on this list, you will put yourself in a better position for an EB1 in the future. 

So why not try one?

#immigration #greencard #EB1

_____

P.S. Any other EB1 hacks you would add?

end


Post 143:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:21:17
Post Date: Are you waiting around for a USCIS receipt notice?

Are you wondering if there is anything you can do?

Good news...you probably can if it's been more than 6 weeks.

---

If you are anything like me, and your USCIS receipt is delayed for more than 3 weeks you start to worry. 

Did your case get rejected? 
Lost in the mailroom?
Stuck in a FedEx truck? 
Caught in a snowstorm? 

Good news for worry warts like me.

You can check in on your case after 6 weeks.

If you filed your USCIS application over 6 weeks ago and you are still waiting for a receipt notice from a USCIS lockbox, then you can email the Lockbox support team (and they usually respond!!).

This will not help you with other inquiries about your case. Or receipt notices that are pending for less than 6 weeks.

But it can help you with this small, but stressful issue of a > 6-week delayed receipt notice.

Here is the email: lockboxsupport@uscis.dhs.gov.

#immigration #USCIS #immigrationdelays

end


Post 144:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:21:19
Post Date: 5 Secrets about NIW

1. You can win without any citations
2. Expert letters don't matter that much
3. Defining your field is CRITICAL
4. Use the EB1A criteria as a guide 
5. The last requirement is NOT important

---

📊 USCIS loves citations, but you can show your impact through other metrics. Especially if you're not an academic.

✍️ Expert letters explain your impact in the field, but they will NOT win your case. The other evidence is much more important.

🤓 Your field should not be too broad or too narrow (it's like goldilocks). If you get it right, you can show a clear narrative of why YOU are the expert. This is what USCIS wants to see.

👯 The NIW criteria are deceptively simple (only 3 main requirements). But USCIS often looks at the EB1A criteria as a guide. So if you are building your NIW profile, take a look at the EB1A criteria.

😮 The last criterion for NIW is that "it is beneficial to waive the job offer and labor certification requirement." But if you meet the other requirements for NIW, it will be easy to show this. So, don't worry about it.  Worry about the other requirements instead.

Any other secrets you would add?

---

If these secrets look familiar, that's because they are.  The first 3 secrets are the EXACT SAME for EB1A.  If you are building your profile for NIW you are also building your profile for EB1A.

#immigration #NIW #NIWSecrets

end


Post 145:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:21:25
Post Date: Everyone knows they need to meet 3/10 of the EB-1A criteria.
 
What they don’t know is…
 
There's 1 of the 10 criteria that everyone should meet.
 
Without it, you will probably lose.
 
Publications? Media recognition? High Salary? 

Which one is it?
 
⬇ The most important EB-1A criterion ⬇ 
 ⭐ Significant original contributions ⭐  
 
What does this mean?
 
It means you've contributed something new/different to your field.
 
Before you came along no one in the field was doing it.
 
And after you came along people started doing things differently because of you.

---
 
If this is just 1 of the criteria, why do you need it?
 
Because the EB-1A is all about your impact on your field as a whole.
 
If you can't explain how you've contributed to the field in an original way, then you probably can't show you are a leader in the field.
 
So if you're trying to figure out which EB-1A criteria to focus on, make sure you put "original contributions" on your list!

#immigration #EB1 #EB1A 
 

end


Post 146:
Post: 2024-04-23 17:21:45
Post Date: How much are the filing fees? 
What form do I use?
Where do I mail my application?

Simple enough questions.

But answering them is harder than an SAT logic problem.

Especially as we head into April 1st.

USCIS is using "received by April 1st" for some of the answers.

And "postmarked by April 1st" for other parts.

So...if you are filing an H-1B, mailing it out on 3/31, arriving after April 1 your fees will not increase, you can use the old forms, but you better not forget that you have to mail it to a new address.

And USCIS recently updated the filing addresses on the website.

So it's not clear if we should use those new addresses before April 1st or not.

Any wrong move could lead to a rejection.

...a rejection that will come back after the April 1 fee increase deadline.

So you'll have to pay more to refile it.

I always hated those SAT/LSAT logic questions.

I am not liking them anymore now IRL.

But don't worry they are just a few simple questions...

end


Post 147:
Post: 2024-03-24 17:21:49
Post Date: April Visa Bulletin came out over the weekend.

Good news, bad news.

Good news:
• Some forward movement for EB categories

Bad news:
• Upcoming months will probably not go forward

...Fun times with the visa bulletin as always.

end


Post 148:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:23:00
Post Date: Q: What are the chances of a second H-1B lottery this year?

A: Unlikely.

But what about all the double registrations? 
What about the potential fraud?
Won't that mean more denials?

Maybe.

But USCIS already selected a lot more people than spots available.

Even with the extra Master's degree cap of 85,000 this is far below the 110,791 selected.

Given the high demand this year, I would guess that enough people will be filing H-1Bs to fill all the spots.

I would love to be wrong.

But I am not banking on it.

And neither should you/your employer.

---

What do you predict? Second H-1B lottery? Yay or nay?

#immigration #H1B #h1blottery 

end


Post 149:
Post: 2024-02-23 17:23:23
Post Date: I am a software engineer at a top tech company...

What EB-1A criteria should I focus on?

• awards
• media
• original contribution

Why?

If you are an individual contributor at your company, you will need to show immigration how you have impacted the field as a whole outside of your company.

To do this, you want as much external validation/recognition as possible.

The more external recognition you can get, the better.

You will be up against this feeling/presumption at USCIS that maybe you've done a great job at your company, but you haven't really influenced the field as a whole.

So to do this, you want to show that places outside of your company and clients/customers recognize the importance of your work.

Media recognition & awards will really help here.

You may be tempted to focus on other criteria like:

• judging
• critical contribution at a distinguished org
• high salary

But so many other people will be focusing on these too.  

It's relatively easy to become a peer reviewer, and if you are at a top company in a senior role you are probably making a high salary.

But these distinctions will not win your case.

You will need more.

That's why you want to look at the other criteria and see how you can get that external recognition.

That's what will help convince USCIS that you deserve EB-1A.

end


Post 150:
Post: 2024-02-23 17:23:35
Post Date: 10 ways to build your NIW profile.

...even if you're not an academic.

 1. Stop stressing about citations. They don't matter.
    
 2. Narrow your focus (pick a specific area within your field)
    
 3. Tell your manager you are looking for publicly-facing opportunities
    
 4. Ask your manager if he/she knows about any industry organizations (outside of your company) 
    
 5. Ask your former professors about professional associations in your field
    
 6. Join at least one of these organizations
    
 7. Look for leadership positions within the organizations
    
 8. Volunteer to present at an industry conference (outside of your company)
    
 9. Google awards in your industry and see if you can get nominated (ask a colleague/mentor to nominate you, if that's what it takes)
    
10. Book a strategy session with me for personalized action items
    
    
---

P.S. You may have seen these steps before. They work for both academics and industry professionals, including software engineers and product managers. So don't be scared to try them even if you're not in a job that typically publishes, gives conference presentations, or gets citations.

end


Post 151:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:23:43
Post Date: Anatomy of a parent's work week:

📅 Monday: 

Daycare drop off. Get home, start work. Draft a complaint for federal court. Move a green card application along. Receive approved work permits for clients.  Feelin' productive. Daycare app message: come pick your kid up from daycare he has "goopy eye."  Pick him up, download 2 separate apps to schedule/attend a telehealth appointment. 

📅 Tuesday:  

Compare schedules with your spouse. Keep 2 meetings.  Prepare for 2 presentations. Chase a goopy eyed toddler around. Think that his eyes are looking better. Pack & drive 3hrs for a conference.

📅 Wednesday:  

Attend professional conference. Facetime call with spouse and goopy eyed kid, who is not getting better.  Feeling a little guilty, but mostly grateful for my spouse taking primary parent duty. Fun dinner with fellow workin' moms.

📅 Thursday:  

Present on 2 panels at the conference (at 8:30am and 4:30pm). Hear from spouse that things are getting worse and our kid seems like he is in a lot of pain. Drive 3hrs home.  

📅 Friday:  

Take kid to doctor. Find out he has an ear infection. Get a COVID test just in case. Get antibiotics. Reply to emails during nap time.

📅 Saturday:  

Kid looks SO MUCH better. Family day at the beach. Get a call from the doctor that the "just in case" COVID test came back positive 🙃

end


Post 152:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:23:48
Post Date: MAJOR UPDATE for laid-off immigrants.

Yesterday USCIS announced updates on when laid-off workers can use compelling circumstances EADs.

Good news: we got some clarity.
Bad news: it's not as helpful as you think

So, how do you know if it's right for you?

You can apply if:
- You are in H-1B, L-1, O-1, E-3
- You have an approved I-140
- Your visa number is not current
- You have not applied for AOS
- You can show financial hardship
- Your hardship is more than just job loss

But should you apply?

Probably not if:
- You need to work immediately
- You want to change status (like back to H-1B)
- You plan to adjust status
- You need to travel internationally

You cannot work while the EAD application is pending (can be 6-8mo). 

Even if it is approved, you just get work authorization for 1 year and NOTHING ELSE.

You won't have travel authorization (if you leave the US you cannot come back using the EAD).

You won't have status.

You are allowed to stay in the US, but without status, you can cause problems for your future immigration self.

Without status, you cannot "change status" or "adjust status." So you have to leave the US to process any new visa or green card.

For some people with no other options maybe the compelling circumstances EAD is worth it. 

But I would guess for most, it's not. 

Even with this USCIS update.

end


Post 153:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:24:10
Post Date: Not selected for the H-1B lottery?

Considering Day 1 CPT? 

Here's why you shouldn't.

It could cause major problems for your future self.

...Because USCIS or DOS may deny a future application.

Just because your school approves your Day 1 CPT does not mean that you are safe.

CPT was designed to be an internship/training-type program that is integral to your F-1 studies.

It was not designed to be an alternative to the H-1B.

So if you are using Day 1 CPT to primarily work, not study, this can be a problem.

Let's say you are trying to use Day 1 CPT to go back to work at a place where you already did OPT.

Your school may not approve it because you already received the training.

But even if your school approves it, when you go to change status next year from F-1 to H-1B, USCIS will deny it.  

USCIS will say you that your Day 1 CPT should not have been approved and that you violated your F-1 status.

USCIS is aware of and especially critical of schools marketing Day 1 CPT.

So watch out!

Although Day 1 CPT is tempting, be careful. You don't want to sacrifice your future immigration paths for this quick fix.

#immigration #CPT #day1cpt 

end


Post 154:
Post: 2023-07-23 17:24:12
Post Date: H-1B lottery registration account issues? 

Worried this means 1000000000000 registrants for 65000 slots?

Me too....So what to do?

Come up with an H-1B contingency plan.

Here are 5 options:

1) O-1 

Not as hard as an EB1A and you can take proactive steps now to build your O-1 profile.

2) H-1B cap exempt employer

Have you ever considered working for a college, university, or nonprofit research organization? They have all kinds of jobs, not just professor positions, and they are exempt from the cap (so no lottery required).

3) J-1 

Did you know that universities have incubator programs that work with startups and sponsor J-1s? This could be an option, just keep your eyes out for the 2-yr home residency requirement.

4) Marriage to your U.S. citizen girlfriend/boyfriend/partner

I know, I know, don't marry for the wrong reasons. But if you are in a real relationship, and in love, then you might want to consider this option, it truly is the fastest/best route.

5) F-1 Master's or PhD

This is probably the most common. People go back to school to obtain a higher degree. And if you pursue STEM then you get 3 yrs of OPT after graduation.

Cheers & happy H-1B registration season! May the odds be ever in your favor.

#immigration #H1B #H1Blottery 

end


Post 155:
Post: 2022-07-23 17:24:30
Post Date: USCIS updated the dates for the H-1B lottery in a news alert last week.

Here is a new and improved infographic to reflect the updated dates.

Don't be fooled by the "Important Dates" (like I was) on the USCIS H-1B Registration webpage that still list the old dates.  https://lnkd.in/gGxQaNyD

#h1b #infographic #immigration

end


Post 156:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:21:51
Post Date: How to convince your employer to sponsor you for an O-1.

⬇️ Try this email template ⬇️

---

Dear employer,

I am reaching out to see if you would be open to sponsoring me for an O-1A visa.

I qualify for the O-1A because I am a national expert in [insert your field, be specific: ❌software engineering ✅ AI for UX design prototyping].

My biggest contribution to the field is: [insert 1 thing that you have done in your field that no one else was doing before you came along].

I meet at least 3/10 O-1A criteria.

[Insert 3 bullet points only, here are examples:

▪️ Critical contribution to distinguished org: 
The tool I created for this company is now used by 300M people in the world and brings in XX revenue for the company. Other companies now mimic my tool. It has become an industry standard.

 ▪️ Media: 
I was interviewed by Forbes and Tech Crunch about the way AI impacts UX design and what are the up and coming trends in the industry.

 ▪️ Peer review: 
I peer reviewed 20 articles for a [insert name of one leading professional journal.]

Given my record, I am curious if you would be open to sponsoring my O-1.

Thank you,
[Your name]

---

Here's the key: 
Don't go into every detail. 

Keep it as concise as possible. 
Do not attach your evidence.

The person evaluating your O-1 eligibility does not have time to open up 1000s of pages of evidence. 

...Especially if you are talking to an immigration team at a major tech company. 

You need to summarize it. 

Make your employer's job easy, not hard.

A happy employer is more likely to approve your O-1 request. 

end


Post 157:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:21:53
Post Date: When you get to meet your LinkedIn friends IRL 🤗

It was a treat to meet this gem of human Marco Scanu in person a few weeks ago.

He is just as warm and brilliant (baby-immigration lawyer status) in person as he is on LinkedIn.

end


Post 158:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:22:01
Post Date: I ♥️ CBP... 

For this one thing.

What is it?

They answer my calls,

...Ok not always.

But most of the time.

When I call a CBP office at the airport or border, an officer usually answers.

A real HUMAN answers the phone.

I can ask the human questions, and the human responds.

REVOLUTIONARY.

I like to call when I have an immigration application that CBP will be reviewing to make sure they can process the case.

I like to call when a client with a tricky immigration issue will be coming into the country.

You might like to call them too.

I encourage you to give it a try.

Pick up the phone and chat with your friendly neighborhood CBP officer.

#immigration #CBP #callyourCBPfriend

end


Post 159:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:22:12
Post Date: Want an NIW green card fast?

Good news!

Premium processing is now available for NIW cases.

---

What does this mean?

💰️ You can pay a $2,500 fee for immigration to process your application faster.

📆 USCIS will review your case in 45 days. Not 15 days (compared with H-1B premium processing).

👀 Let me say that again....USCIS will REVIEW your case in 45 days. Not decide it 45 days. So you might get an RFE instead.

⏳️ This fast processing only applies to the I-140 portion of your application, NOT the green card portion (I-485). So even if you get an I-140 approval in 45 days, you cannot expedite your adjustment of status.

---

#immigration #NIW #premiumprocessing

end


Post 160:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:23:21
Post Date: How to prevent USCIS from rejecting your immigration application?

Do these 3 things ✔️✔️✔️

On the day you are ready to file your application:

1️⃣ Verify the “edition date” is current for each form.
2️⃣ Make sure your filing fee amount is correct.
3️⃣ Check the filing address on the USCIS website.

These things seem so simple, but they are easy to mess up. The forms, filing fees, and addresses are always changing, so even if you think you already checked, check again on the day you file.

You won’t prevent every rejection, but you will lower the risk.

end


Post 161:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:24:04
Post Date: What’s 1 common mistake in work visa applications that’s easy to fix? 🤔

✅ Avoid using acronyms to describe your work. 

I get it, when you are living and breathing your work, the acronyms come naturally to make your life more efficient—don’t even get me started on all the immigration law acronyms that I rely on daily. It’s easy  to assume that everyone knows common acronyms (for example, CRM, ERM, and ML).

But these acronyms can be very confusing for immigration officers and attorneys with no education or training in your field (I once spent an hour trying to figure out what “WW” stood for only to discover that it meant “worldwide” 🤦🏻♀️).

So when you are describing your work to a consular officer, a USCIS officer, or your attorney, try to avoid using acronyms. 👌🏼

end


Post 162:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:24:13
Post Date: 🚨 Deficiency Notice 🚨

Sounds scary (spooky even 👻)... 

But, it's not.

If you get a "Deficiency Notice" from USCIS you might think you (or your lawyer) messed something up in your immigration application.

But it's just a heads up.

Most of the time, USCIS is just telling you that you will need to complete your medical exam before your green card can be approved.

It's like a pre-RFE.  It will say, hey you, I see you didn't submit your application with a medical, in the future, we will ask you for it, but don't send it now.

So, it's really harmless.

I'm not sure why it needs to have such a scary name.  

No reason to be spooked. 

Think of it more as an "FYI notice."

#immigration #greencard #deficiencynotice
___

P.S. Any other immigration notices you would like to rename?

end


Post 163:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:25:01
Post Date: How to build your profile for NIW. 

Join us for this FREE webinar today (7/6/23) at 9am PST!

Q&A at the end of the webinar.

Recording link will be available if you can't make it.

end


Post 164:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:25:16
Post Date: 👶🏻 Kids.  They make everything in your life different.

Even your immigration case.

Did you know that there are different signature requirements & government filing fees for kids?

✍🏻 If you are submitting an immigration application for your kid, you will need to sign the forms on their behalf.  Unless they are 14 or over.  Then, they must sign their own forms!

💲 If you are filing an adjustment of status (green card) application for your kid under 14, the filing fee is less.  And if you submit the wrong filing fee for your kid, USCIS will reject the application.

So don't forget to make your immigration application "kid friendly" to avoid USCIS from rejecting the case!  

#immigration #USCIS #filingtips

end


Post 165:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:25:31
Post Date: 💉💉💉 COVID vaccines 💉💉💉 

Required for immigration?

Mostly yes.  But...

It depends on your immigration application.

✅ Tourist visa = required
✅ Work visa = required
✅ Green card = required
❌ Citizenship = NOT required

You might be eligible for a waiver/exception to the COVID vaccine, but generally it's required.  UNLESS you are applying for U.S. citizenship (and you already have your green card).

#immigration #COVID #COVIDvaccine 

end


Post 166:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:25:33
Post Date: Your Uber will arrive in 3 minutes. Your pizza is 17 minutes away. 

Your green card will be processed in 1-3 years. Your asylum interview will be scheduled in 1-8 years.

In our Uber/Netflix/Amazon world, we are used to having accurate and nearly immediate times for pretty much everything. I am so accustomed to it that I get mad when my pizza comes in 30 minutes instead of the 17 minutes that the delivery app predicted.

So, I cringe when I have to tell clients that my best prediction for how long it will take for the government to process their case is a range of several YEARS. 

I know USCIS is working to create more personalized predictions, but this function is not ready for prime time. So for now, we are stuck with these very unpredictable processing times.

end


Post 167:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:25:52
Post Date: The visa bulletin sucks right now.

But here are 2 good things about it.

1️⃣ You get to hold on to your priority date in EB3, EB2, and EB1

If you have an approved I-140 from a million years ago, you get to keep that priority date. Even if you file for EB1. So even if EB1 is backlogged for your home country, you might not need to wait. You get to jump the line.

2️⃣ Your EB2 or EB3 priority date is the date your PERM is filed, not approved.

This means that once it is approved (~5-9 months later) your priority date is a day in the past. So your case might be current very soon (if you are not from India or China). This is even with a visa bulletin backlog of ~11 months.


...A small sliver of hope/good news in the craziness of the visa bulletin.

end


Post 168:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:26:19
Post Date: How long is my H-1B grace period if I quit my job?

It's hard to find a clear answer to this question.

So what's the answer?

It's the same as if you are laid off:

➡️ 60 days ⬅️

USCIS says that a "voluntary cessation of employment" (aka quitting) gets a 60-day grace period, just like an "involuntary cessation of employment" (aka being laid off).

Ewww that's a mouthful...and we wonder why it's so confusing/not clear when you Google it.

#immigration #H1B #H1Bgraceperiod 

end


Post 169:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:29:36
Post Date: Ever wonder what's in your immigration file? 

Good news. You can find out.

How?

File a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request.

---

You can submit a FOIA to USCIS to get info and documents from your previous immigration cases.

This can be a great tool if you want to know more about the petition that your employer filed for you, you lost documents, or you want a second opinion on your case.

It's easy & (usually) free.

You can submit a FOIA request online. 

It will take you 10min or less.

---

Here's my hack to make sure you get your complete immigration file.

Ask for "My complete A-file."  

Once you submit it, expect to wait about 1-3 months to get a response.

Immigration attorneys charge $100-$1000 for a FOIA, but with this quick hack, you can do it yourself for free.

#immigration #FOIA #howtofileaFOIA

end


Post 170:
Post: 2023-08-27 18:30:38
Post Date: Laid off and want to transfer to a tourist visa?

Want to avoid a denial of your change of status application?

DON'T say you want to stay to find a new job
DON'T say you've lived in the US for a decade 
DON'T say you need more time to close up your life
DON'T say your whole life is the US 

DO include a plane ticket 
DO explain what touristy things you'll be doing 
DO explain your ties to your home country
DO include evidence of these ties (family, prop, etc.)

Sure, USCIS has said that it's OK to change to a B2 tourist visa while you are interviewing for jobs. 

But this doesn't change the ultimate purpose of the B2, which is to be a visitor TEMPORARILY in the US.

If USCIS thinks you are looking for a permanent job in the US, your application will be denied.

end


Post 171:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:30:45
Post Date: The best birthday present? 🎁 

A green card. 

Thank you USCIS for approving my client’s green card the week of her birthday. 

Adjustment of status with a complex fraud waiver approved today! ✅🎉

This Friday is feeling extra sweet. 🎂

end


Post 172:
Post: 2024-03-24 18:30:50
Post Date: Does my employer have to know, if I...

• File for NIW
• File for EB-1A
• File a concurrent H-1B

NO.

None of these will "cancel out" what your employer is doing.

You can keep doing your PERM with them.

You don't have to tell your employer you are doing these things if you don't want to.

You may want to let them know once it is approved.

Some employers may even pay for your adjustment of status after NIW/EB-1 approval...

Even if you filed it without the employer.

So it could benefit you to let them know.

You will also want to let them know if they are filing an H-1B extension for you that you have an approved concurrent H-1B.

But otherwise, there is no requirement that you tell your employer.

You can build your profile.
You can file your case.
You can get your approval.

...all without your employer.

end


Post 173:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:31:27
Post Date: What's more likely than winning the H-1B lottery?
(according to ChatGPT)

🌠Getting struck by a meteorite
🏅Winning an Olympic medal
🏆 Winning a Grammy Award
🤑 Winning a prize in the Powerball lottery 
🎓 Getting into Harvard University 
🤚 Being born with six fingers or toes

...ok ChatGPT's math skills are not great, but it captures the feeling perfectly.

#immigration #ChatGPT #H1B #H1Blottery

end


Post 174:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:31:29
Post Date: 3 ways to build your O-1 profile right now.

(as a backup if you are not selected for the H-1B lottery)

---

1️⃣ Ask your manager if there are any externally facing competitions, presentations, or events that you can participate in on behalf of your company.

This way you are starting to show your impact in the industry outside of just your company.

2️⃣ Join a professional organization in your industry and volunteer to help put on events. 

This way you are getting your name out there and meeting people in your industry outside of just your company.

3️⃣ Ask someone you look up to in your field (like a mentor at work) if they would be open to getting together for a coffee (virtual or in person) to talk about their career trajectory and what they did to become a leader in the field. 

This way you have ideas of ways to increase your leadership in the field that are specific to your industry.

---

Worst case scenario you get selected for the H-1B lottery and you "wasted" time investing in your career.

#immigration #h1B #O1

end


Post 175:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:31:39
Post Date: Can you travel with an expired green card?

I bet you would think the answer is no.

But technically you can.

---

Ideally, you won't be traveling with an expired green card.

But the law does allow it. If you need to.

You can travel back to the US using an expired 10-year green card. 

The expiration date on your green card should not stop you.

BUT...

You could have problems if:

📅 You were outside the US for 6 months or more 

If you were outside the US for 6 months or more then you might face some questions on whether you abandoned your permanent residence in the US. So you'll want to be prepared to show how you have maintained your permanent residence in the US during this time.

✈️ The airline won't let you on your plane

Airlines are charged if the immigration officers don't let you into the US when you arrive off your plane. So they often try to do an initial screening. One way to help prevent getting rejected can be showing this notice from CBP that says expired 10-year green cards are OK to travel on.

---

👇️ Key takeaway 👇️

Avoid traveling with an expired green card if possible. 
But if you have to, be prepared to explain why it's permitted.

end


Post 176:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:31:41
Post Date: Want a green card soon?

You'll probably have to wait. A while.

Why?

The U.S. government only gives out a certain number of green cards a year for each country.

High demand = long backlog.

The government just released the August Visa Bulletin.

This is the document that tells us how bad the backlog is.

And August is not looking good.

Indian EB1 priority date goes back to 2012. 
That's not a typo. 
2012.

Every country now has to wait for EB1 green cards.

EB3 now has a 3+ year wait for all countries. 
That's after you already go through the PERM process.
The PERM process that now takes 1.5-2 years.
5+ year process to get your green card.

This might get a little better in October when the government restarts the green card number count for the year.

But I wouldn't bank on a magical clearing of the backlogs.

If this isn't reason to get started ASAP on your green card plan, I don't know what is.

end


Post 177:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:31:57
Post Date: Submitting taxes with your immigration application?

Did you know that this is a right way & wrong way to do it?

The wrong way: 
❌ A copy of your tax return.

The right way:
✅ A tax return transcript.

---

What is a tax transcript?

It's a record from the IRS that shows you actually filed & paid your taxes.

A copy of your completed tax return doesn't prove you actually filed it. 

In theory, you could complete a fake tax return and never submit it to the IRS. 

You could fake paying your taxes.

So USCIS prefers tax transcripts.

Because they prove that you actually filed and paid your taxes. 

--

⬇️ Key takeaway ⬇️

If possible, provide your "Tax Return Transcripts" to USCIS. 

You can request them online.

--

P.S. The IRS has several tax transcripts. You want the one that says "Tax RETURN Transcript." You don't need the other transcripts. 

#immigration #taxes #USCIS

end


Post 178:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:32:24
Post Date: How to evaluate your EB-1A eligibility with 1 question.

Ask yourself...

Have I made an impact in my industry outside of just the companies I've worked for?

---

You probably already know that you need to meet 3/10 EB-1A criteria. But, that is not enough.  

You also need to ask this question.

How have I impacted the field/industry as a whole?

Maybe you've saved your company millions. Maybe you created an internal tool that everyone in your company relies on.

These accomplishments are impressive.

But did they impact the entire industry (not just your company)?

If your answer is "no" or "I don't know," that's ok.  

It doesn't mean you can't get an EB-1A.

It just means you need to work on more external-facing (outside of your company) accomplishments. 

Perhaps talk to your manager and see if you can participate in industry challenges, press statements, or judging competitions.

This way you can build a strong EB-1A profile.

---

#immigration #greencard #EB1A

end


Post 179:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:32:26
Post Date: 3 tips to avoid an RFE. 

The 3rd tip might surprise you.

1) Avoid corporate jargon/lingo
2) Provide easy-to-read evidence
3) Make your LinkedIn consistent

---

🤓 Phrases/words/acronyms like "enterprise," "evangelize," "digital transformation," "ML," and "ERP SAP" might be used constantly in your industry and make you sound smart.  But the immigration officer will not be impressed.  Only confused. So make the officer's life easier and explain your work in easy to understand terms.

📜 No blurry photos. No cut off articles. No teeny tiny font. No advertisements over the key part of the article quoting you. No photos without any explanation.  Remember this is the only evidence the officer has in your case, so make sure it is easy to read.

💻️ Just like you can Google everything, so can the immigration officer. So expect the officer to see your LinkedIn (or any other public social media). Make sure your job title/location/description is generally consistent with your immigration application. 

---

You still might get an RFE. But at least you can minimize your chances as much as possible.

---

Any other RFE tips to add?

#immigration #RFE #RFEtips

end


Post 180:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:32:28
Post Date: Want an NIW green card?

Stressed about building your profile?

Here's something you can STOP stressing about...

STOP stressing about showing that you work in a field of national interest.

Almost every field can meet this requirement.

Analytics?
In the national interest

Natural Language Processing?
In the national interest

Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI)?
In the national interest

Entrepreneurship?
In the national interest

Logistics?
In the national interest

I could go on and on.

You do not need to gather tons of documentation to show how your field is linked to the national interest.

Your attorney can do the leg work for you (gathering congressional reports and other evidence to link your field to the national interest).

So breathe easy and take this off your to-do list.

Happy NIW profile building!

#immigration #greencard #NIW

end


Post 181:
Post: 2024-02-23 18:33:48
Post Date: Tess Douglas - Thank you for your post.  I would like to add my 2 cents (or 3 dogecoin) to this issue:

** The issue here is the distinction between work and investment.

** If you set up a Schwab account and buy 3 shares of NVIDIA, then you own NVIDIA and you can benefit from the rise in the share price but you don't have permission to WORK for NVIDIA.  To work for NVIDIA requires work authorization through H-1B or whatever.

** The issue is clear for a large company, where shares are publicly traded.

** Now let's take it down to a small business situation.  If you put up your money to buy a rental property, that is arguably an INVESTMENT.  You are using your $$ to do something and not your effort (work).  Now if you decide to basically spend 40 hours per week fixing up houses and flipping them, now you have probably crossed the line from INVESTMENT to WORK and you need authorization to do the work.

** Content creation is not investment.  It is work.  Buying things and flipping them on EBAY (do people still do that?) is also work.  Investment is where you are using financial resources to grow.

I actually think the rules can make sense in this context even if sometimes limiting and frustrating.

I am less annoyed about these rules.

I am VERY annoyed by people who think they are very clever and they come to the US in a non-working status and then they are paid from abroad and say, "I can be here on B-2 or H-4 and work because I am paid from abroad."

Yeah, and I can claim Texas residence and live in California and avoid California taxes.  NO!

But that's a different story.

end


Post 182:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:35:12
Post Date: Join Tess Douglas and me for a FREE Webinar to get started on your EB-2 NIW profile... 

It's never too early to get started 🚀

This Thursday, July 6, 2023, at 9 am PST.

Limited seats, sign up here: https://lnkd.in/exPwbfjJ

end


Post 183:
Post: 2023-07-23 18:36:11
Post Date: Some immigration cases sound scary...

😨Diversity visa lottery won, but USCIS didn't approve it in time. 
😨Tried to fight it, but ended up in immigration court. 
😨Deported. 
😨Reentered the US before the 10yr bar.

BUT...

Don't be scared.  

Just see what else can happen in a "scary" case...

🎉Employment-based I-140 approved
🎉Waiver approved
🎉Green card approved
🎉 20+ year complex US immigration history resolved

The outcome is anything but scary.

I love celebrating these outcomes with my clients, like the one who received his green card this weekend!

#immigration #greencard #waiver

end


